BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2023-068
Multnomah County’s Agreement with the City of Portland to increase the cap on number
of applicants allowed within each fiscal year under the Homebuyer Opportunity Limited
T ax Exemption Program (“HOLTE”)
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. The City of Portland Housing Bureau (“PHB”) administers the Homebuyer
Opportunity Limited T ax Exemption Program (the “HOLTE Program”), authorized under
ORS 307.651-307.687.
b. By Board Resolution 2012-113, the Board of County Commissioners authorized
participation in the City of Portland’s HOLTE Program and capped the number of
applicants per fiscal year at 100.
c. Most properties receiving a limited property tax exemption under the HOLTE
Program also receive exemptions from System Development Charges (“SDCs”). The
number of SDC exemption applications this year exceeds the HOLTE Program
applications 6:1, due to zoning changes to encourage in-fill development that went into
effect under the Residential Infill Project and RIP2, in 2021 and 2022 respectively. The
homebuyer eligibility criteria are the same for both the HOLTE and SDC Exemption
Programs: homebuyers must earn no more than 100 percent of the area median family
income for a family of four, and homes must sell for less than the annually established
sale price limit.
d. The goal of the HOLTE is to provide tax savings to low- to moderate-income
homebuyers within the City of Portland. When the HOLTE Program is paired with the
SDC Exemption Program, they provide an incentive to homebuilders to build new
homes that are affordable to first-time homebuyers. These tools support the local, small
homebuilding businesses and are embraced by the local section of the Homebuilders
Association. Close to half the homebuyers using the programs are from the Asian
community.
e. PHB wants to increase the capacity for homebuilders to apply for the HOLTE
Program from 100 per year to 500 per year, so that low- to moderate-income
homebuyers have more resources to assist them in achieving homeownership.
f. PHB wants to review the effects of the cap increase within three years to
determine the appropriate ongoing cap considering current market conditions, income
levels, and foregone revenue, as well as the outcomes of the upcoming Housing Needs
Analysis underway currently by Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
Page 1 - Modifying Multnomah County Agreement to the City of Portland’s Homebuyer
Opportunity Limited T ax Exemption Program.
g.  The Portland City Council declares an emergency exists because the annual
HOLTE application cap renews on July 1, and the increase in the cap will allow
homebuilders to apply when they are ready to build rather than rushing to apply
prematurely due to competition created by the current 100-unit cap; therefore, this
Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage by the Council.
h. Multnomah County supports this declaration and agrees with the Council and
PHB efforts by expanding the number of allowable applicants from 100 to 500.
i. The average value of the tax exemption provided annually to a home within the
HOLTE program as of FY 2021-22 is $3,094. Estimated an additional 200 applications
per year would result in additional projected first-year foregone revenue of $618,800.
The City’s portion of that is roughly 30%, or $185,640, which amounts to a projected
$1.7 million foregone revenue to the City over ten years for that 1st year and totaling
roughly $5.2 million over three years. The County’s portion of foregone revenue will be
approximately $240,000. The value of the tax exemption to a homeowner over ten (10)
years is estimated at $28,500.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The annual cap on the number of HOL TE Program applications PHB can accept
each
ﬁ
scal year is 500, e
ﬀ
ective July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2026.
ADOPTED this 20th day of July, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
Submitted by: Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair.
Page 2 - Modifying Multnomah County Agreement to the City of Portland’s Homebuyer
Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program.