BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2020-001
Proclamation Declaring January 9, 2020 as Dr. Paul Lewis Day in Multnomah County, Oregon in Honor
of his Exemplary Service as the Multnomah County Health Officer and Tri-County Health Officer.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
1. The Health Officer provides physician consultation, technical direction and leadership to support
public health activities and clinical services in Multnomah County, fulfilling a requirement of Oregon law.
2. The Health Officer works with deputy health officers for Multnomah, Clackamas and Washington
counties to align public health activities in the greater Portland-metro area including communicable
disease prevention, outbreak response, environmental health concerns, injury and chronic disease
prevention, and public health emergency preparedness.
3. In Multnomah County, the Health Officer also oversees the:
o Medical Examiner, responsible for establishing the causes and manner of death under
special circumstances in the County.
o Emergency Medical Services, responsible for coordinating pre-hospital medical services
for people experiencing an emergency.
o Public Health Preparedness, responsible for assuring the county health department and
the community are prepared to manage the public health aspects of emergencies and that
health care delivery providers in the six-county NW Oregon region are prepared to provide
effective medical care in the face of emergencies with large and complex health impacts.
4. On Feb. 3, 2014, Dr. Paul Lewis, a pediatrician and infectious disease specialist who had worked
as a health officer in the Tri-County area since 2008, took over as Multnomah County Health Officer.
5. As Health Officer, Dr. Paul Lewis has been the region's supervising health officer advising local
and state government and health officials on public health policy such as air quality, disease prevention
and maternal child health.
6. Dr. Lewis has tirelessly led a broad coalition of health providers, government agencies and
community partners in responding to communicable disease and foodborne illness outbreaks, the
impacts of wildfire smoke, heat waves, cold-related risks, and physical threats to air and water quality.
7. Whereas, Dr. Lewis has volunteered since 2012 to design, conduct and release the annual
Domicile Unknown report, the region's only report on deaths among people experiencing homeless.
8. Whereas, Dr. Lewis has charted and led the regional response to the devastating opioid epidemic,
from writing regional prescribing guidelines, to changing state law to greatly expand the availability of the
rescue drug Naloxone, assure witnesses to an overdose could call 911 without being prosecuted through
the Good Samaritan Law and continues to promote other life-saving strategies.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
9. 	 Whereas, Dr. Lewis has worked countless hours to support County policy goals including helping
to survey injection drug users, provide medical care in shelters, promote planning and strategic
partnerships with state, county and city partners, and communicate directly with the community through
hundreds of media interviews.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
January 9, 2020 as Dr. Paul Lewis Day in Multnomah County to recognize and celebrate his significant
contribution to prevent disease, promote health and assure the wellness of all.
ADOPTED this 9th day of January, 2020.
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Julie Sullivan-Springhetti