BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.
Adopting the Main Streets on Halsey Cross Section and Street Design Plan.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. The Main Streets on Halsey Cross Section and Street Design Plan (the “Halsey Plan”)
builds on work conducted under previous phases to transform Halsey Street into a
safe, vibrant, and attractive street that supports adjacent land uses and provides
opportunities for transportation choices serving neighborhoods and businesses;
B. The Halsey Plan culminates a yearlong effort of planning and outreach along the
Halsey Corridor in Fairview, Wood Village, and Troutdale. This included extensive
community engagement including focus groups, workshops, and surveys to
understand community desires for improvements on Halsey Street;
C. The Halsey Plan is a ten (10) percent conceptual design plan that will be refined
through the final design process, which will provide more detail on some aspects of the
Halsey Plan, including right-of-way impacts, impacts to adjacent properties, street
lighting, and utility needs, intersection operations and design, and bus stop placement
and design, each of which could impact the design and cost;
D. The Halsey Plan allows Multnomah County to update the street cross section for NE
Halsey Street within the three cities and pursue funding opportunities through grants
and development impacts for the future road configuration; and
E. The Halsey Plan is included as Exhibit A to this Resolution.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. To accept the Halsey Plan to guide future transportation planning decisions through
the Plan’s vision, implementation, and final recommendations; and
2. To adopt the final report as identified as the “Main Streets on Halsey: Cross Section
and Street Design Plan” prepared by Kittleson and Associates in substantially the
same form as the attached Exhibit “A”.
ADOPTED this 29th day of January, 2026.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
2026-008
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM #5
TITLE:  Linear Design Plan
PROJECT:  Main Streets on Halsey
PROJECT #: 23021.043
DATE:  February 29, 2024

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. Introduction
II. Evaluation of Design Alternatives
1. Summary of Alternatives
a. Cross Section Alternatives
b. Intersection Treatment Alternatives
c. Enhanced Crossing Alternatives
2. Summary of Evaluation Criteria
3. Evaluation Results
a. Cross Section Alternatives
i. Residential Context Zone
ii. Commercial Context Zone
iii. Edgefield Context Zone
iv. Cross Section Evaluation Summary
III. Preferred Alternatives
1. Near-Term Solutions
a. Near-Term Cross Sections
b. Near-Term Intersection Treatments
c. Near-Term Enhanced Crossing Locations
2. Long-Term Solutions
a. Preferred Cross Sections
i. Residential Context Zone
ii. Commercial Context Zone
iii. Edgefield Context Zone
b. Preferred Intersection Treatments
i. NE Halsey Street/NE 223rd Avenue
ii. NE Halsey Street/NE 238th Drive
iii. SW Halsey Street/SW 257th Drive
IV. Design Implementation
1. Key Considerations
a. Linear Design Plan 1
b. Linear Design Plan 2
c. Linear Design Plan 3
2. Elements of Distinction and Continuity
a. Elements of Distinction
b. Elements of Continuity
3. Corridor Branding
4. Design Directions
a. Planting
i. Street Trees
ii. Planting Strips
iii. Planted Medians
iv. Maintenance
b. Stormwater Facilities
c. Off-Street Facilities Materials
d. Driveways
e. On-Street Parking
f. Transit Stops
g. Enhanced Crossings
i. Crossing Treatments
ii. Crossing Locations
h. Major Street Intersections
i. Minor Street Intersections
i. Raised Crosswalks
ii. Conflict Striping
V. Cost Estimates
VI. Land Use and Code Evaluation
1. Land Use Opportunities and Alternatives
Evaluation
2. Assessment of Potential Development
Code Updates
a. Lot Dimension and Building
Orientation Options
VII. Appendices
1. Appendix A: Evaluation Summary
2. Appendix B: Near-Term Solutions
3. Appendix C: Long-Term Solutions
4. Appendix D: Linear Design Plans

I. INTRODUCTION
This memorandum presents the preferred streetscape and roadway design alternatives  developed by the project team to
improve multimodal access and circulation along the 3.5-mile segment of NE Halsey Street from NE 201st Avenue to SW
257th Drive (corridor). Previous memoranda presented alternative cross sections for various context zones along the
corridor (residential, commercial, Edgefield), as well as alternative treatments for three intersections (NE 223rd Avenue, NE
238th Drive, and SW 257th Drive), and enhanced crossings at multiple locations. Previous memoranda also presented the
criteria that were used to evaluate the alternatives and select preferred alternatives for the streetscape design plan. This
memorandum summarizes the alternatives, the evaluation criteria, and the results of the evaluation that led to selection of
the preferred alternatives.
This memorandum also presents a linear design plan for the corridor. The linear design plan reflects the preferred cross
sections, intersection treatments, and enhanced crossings, and shows how they come together to improve access and
circulation along the corridor for people walking, biking, and accessing transit. The linear design plan is supported by design
directions for multiple features along the corridor. Finally, this memorandum presents potential code amendments to
support implementation of the streetscape and roadway design plan within the three cities (Fairview, Wood Village, and
Troutdale) and Multnomah County.

II. EVALUATION OF DESIGN ALTERNATIVES
The preferred streetscape and roadway design alternatives presented in this memorandum were selected by the project
team based on an evaluation of the alternatives using the project evaluation criteria. The alternatives and evaluation
criteria are provided in Tech Memo #3: Alternatives Analysis. A summary of the alternatives, evaluation criteria, and the
evaluation results is provided below.
Summary of Alternatives
Streetscape and roadway design alternatives were developed by the project team to address the project goals and
objectives as well as key issues identified along the corridor. The alternatives were developed based on input from the
three cities (Fairview, Wood Village, and Troutdale) and Multnomah County, and on discussions with the project advisory
committees on a preliminary set of alternatives. The alternatives consist of cross sections, intersection treatments, and
enhanced crossings as described below.
Cross Section Alternatives
The project team developed several cross section alternatives for the residential, commercial, and Edgefield context zones
along the corridor. The alternatives include one near-term solution for each context zone that could be implemented with
minor changes to existing signing and striping, and three or four long-term solutions for each context zone that would
require significant changes to the existing configuration of the roadway. Most of the alternatives are named based on the
type of bicycle facilities included (e.g., separated bike lanes, sidewalk-level bike lanes, etc.) because the bicycle facilities
have the widest variation of all the roadway elements across the alternatives. Also, the type of bicycle facility can affect the
curb-to-curb width, sidewalk configuration, and location of street trees relative to the curb.  The cross section alternatives
were evaluated based on several criteria and a preferred alternative was selected for each context zone as indicated below.
Intersection Treatment Alternatives
The project team developed several intersection treatment alternatives for the NE 223rd Avenue, NE 238th Drive, and NE
257th Drive intersections. The alternatives include one near-term solution for each intersection that could be implemented
with minor changes to the existing signing and striping, and one or two long-term solutions that would require significant
reconfiguration of the intersections, such as reconfiguring the intersections as a single-lane roundabout or as a protected
intersection. The intersection treatment alternatives were evaluated based on several criteria and a preferred alternative
was selected for each intersection as indicated below.
Enhanced Crossing Alternatives
The project team developed several enhanced crossing alternatives for the corridor. The alternatives include various
crossing treatments (e.g., curb extensions, raised median islands, high visibility signs and pavement markings, and
rectangular rapid flashing beacons), and locations along the corridor. Unlike the cross section and intersection treatment
alternatives described above, the enhanced crossing alternatives were not evaluated based on the evaluation criteria. This
is because all the treatments and locations identified in the alternative analysis are identified as preferred and included in
the linear design plan.

Summary of Evaluation Criteria
Evaluation criteria were developed by the project team to evaluate the streetscape and roadway design alternatives and to
select preferred alternatives for the linear design plan. The evaluation criteria reflect the project objectives developed at
the outset of the project and provide the means to assess the extent to which the objectives have been met. The project
objectives and related criteria are summarized below.
Table 1. Project Objectives and Evaluation Criteria
Project Objective Evaluation Criteria
1. Create a cohesive Halsey streetscape and
pedestrian environment that supports existing
small businesses, attracts new businesses, and
creates new jobs
1.1 Promotes economic development by supporting access to
local businesses and business districts for all travel modes.
2. Design Halsey Street to unite the three cities
while also allowing each city to be distinguished in
the ways they build community and drive economic
development
2.1 Minimizes impacts to adjacent properties
2.2 Can be implemented on an incremental basis through
development
2.3 Construction and long-term maintenance costs are equal to
existing costs
3. Make Halsey Street safer, more accessible, and
more visually attractive
3.1 Creates safe and convenient access for people with disabilities
3.2 Improves street appearance through added landscaping and
street trees
3.3 Creates space for adding street furnishing
4. Make public transit, walking, and biking in the
Halsey Street corridor more appealing and safer
4.1 Improves safety for people walking, biking and taking transit
4.2 Increases number and frequency of protected crossings of
Halsey Street
4.3 Improves access to adjacent land uses and public transit
facilities and services
5. Improve the environment by reducing pollution,
planting street trees, and using cost-efficient,
sustainable landscaping treatments
5.1 Incorporates sustainable design strategies
5.2 Creates space for incorporating stormwater facilities
5.3 Reduces impervious surfaces
5.4 Increases tree canopy coverage in the corridor
6. Enhance bikeability and walkability by slowing
vehicular traffic, improving intersections, and
discouraging through-traffic by trucks
6.1 Slows vehicular traffic
6.2 Discourages through truck traffic
6.3 Maintains access to local businesses for delivery trucks
6.4 Provides low-street pedestrian and bicycle facilities
7. Engage with local business owners and the public
to broaden commitment and ongoing involvement
in the corridor
7.1 Supported by local property owners, business owners and
operators, and the public.
7.2 Consistent with previous planning efforts

Consistency with the criteria shown in Table 1 are presented on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 means poor and 5 means good.
Evaluation of each alternative is in relation to other alternatives, rather than against an absolute scale. All criteria are
weighted equally for the purposes of the evaluation. Table 2 illustrates the evaluation matrix legend that was applied to
each of the project objectives and criteria identified above.
Table 2. Evaluation Matrix Legend
1 2 3 4 5
Design concept has
little or no benefit in
achieving the project
objective.
Design concept has
poor benefit in
achieving the
project objective.
Design concept has
some benefit in
achieving the project
objective.
Design concept
has good benefit
in achieving the
project objective.
Design concept has
significant benefit in
achieving the project
objective.
Evaluation Results
The streetscape and roadway design alternatives were evaluated against the project evaluation criteria to determine the
extent to which they meet the project objectives. The following summarizes the evaluation results for the cross sections
and intersection treatments. As indicated above, the enhanced crossings were not evaluated against the criteria given that
they were all identified as preferred.
Cross Section Alternatives
The cross section alternatives for the residential, commercial, and Edgefield context zones were evaluated against the
project evaluation criteria and a preferred alternative was selected for each zone. Table 3 below summarizes the results of
the cross section evaluation for the three context zones. A detailed summary of the evaluation is provided in Appendix A.
Residential Context Zone
Three cross sections were developed and evaluated for the residential context zone. The cross sections include Separated
Bike Lanes, Sidewalk-Level Bike Lanes, and Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes. All three cross sections would improve access and
circulation along the corridor; however, the Sidewalk-Level Bike Lanes and Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross sections
would provide more separation from adjacent street traffic as well as several other benefits over the Separated Bike Lanes
cross section, and therefore are scored higher.
The scores for the Sidewalk-Level Bike Lanes and Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross sections are similar, and there are only
a few criteria where one scores higher than the other. Ultimately the Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross section scored the
highest among the alternatives. A key differentiator in the scoring is the location of the landscape strip relative to the
sidewalks, bike lanes, and motor vehicle lanes. In the Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross section the landscape strip is
located between the bike lanes and the motor vehicle lanes. This creates more separation from adjacent street traffic, more
opportunities for sustainable design features, and improves access to adjacent land uses and local transit service. However,
there are some drawbacks that should be explored during the final design phase, such as the potential for conflicts between
people walking and biking in the residential zones.
It should be noted that the preferred cross section presented later in this report for the residential context zone was refined
to include a 1-foot buffer between the sidewalk and bike lane.

Commercial Context Zone
Four cross sections were developed and evaluated for the commercial context zone. The cross sections include Separated
Bike Lanes, Sidewalk-Level Bike Lanes, Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes, and Parking-Protected Bike Lanes. All four cross
sections would improve access and circulation along the corridor; however, like the residential context zone, the Sidewalk-
Level Bike Lanes and Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross sections would provide more separation from adjacent street
traffic as well as several other benefits over the other cross sections, and therefore are scored higher.
Like the residential context zone, the scores for the Sidewalk-Level Bike Lanes and Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross
sections are similar, and there are only a few criteria where one scores higher than the other. Ultimately the Sidewalk -
Adjacent Bike Lanes cross section scored the highest among the alternatives. Like the residential context zone, a key
differentiator in the scoring is the location of the landscape strip  relative to the sidewalks, bike lanes, and motor vehicle
lanes. In the Sidewalk-Adjacent Bike Lanes cross section the landscape strip is located between the bike lanes and the
motor vehicle lanes. This creates more separation from adjacent street traffic, more opportunities for sustainable design
features, and improves access to adjacent land uses and local transit service – this effect is amplified in the commercial
context zone given the presence of on-street parking. However, there are some drawbacks that should be explored during
the final design phase, such as the potential for conflicts between people walking and biking in the commercial zones.
It should be noted that the preferred cross section presented later in this report for the commercial context zone was refined
to include 8-foot sidewalks and a 1-foot buffer between the sidewalk and bike lane.
Edgefield Context Zone
Three cross sections were developed and evaluated for the Edgefield context zone. The cross sections include Shoulder Bike
Lanes with Shared-Use Paths, Sidewalk-Level Bike Lanes, and Shared-Use Paths Within Right-of-Way. All three cross
sections would improve access and circulation along the corridor; however, the Shared-Use Paths Within Right-of-Way
cross section would provide several benefits over the other cross sections, and therefore scored higher.
Key differentiators in the scoring include the presence of a center turn lane, the presence of continuous at-grade facilities
on both sides of the roadway, and the location of the landscape strip relative to the shared-use paths and motor vehicle
lanes. The center turn lane is a critical element of the preferred cross section and provides improved access to adjacent
land uses, especially during peak time periods, as well as consistency with all prior planning efforts for the corridor. Like the
center tun lane, the presence of continuous at-grade facilities is also a critical element. They provide improved access and
circulation for people walking, biking, and accessing transit along both sides of the corridor. Finally, like the commercial and
residential context zones, the location of the landscape strip between the shared-use path and the motor vehicle lanes
creates more separation from adjacent street traffic, more opportunities for sustainable design features, and improved
access to adjacent land uses and local transit service.
It should be noted that the preferred cross section presented later in this report for the Edgefield context zone was refined
and the 12-foot shared-use paths were replaced by 6-foot sidewalks and 6-foot bike lanes with a 1-foot buffer.
Cross Section Evaluation Summary
Table 3 below summarizes the results of the cross section evaluation for the three context zones. Appendix A contains a
detailed summary of the evaluation and provides further justification for the evaluation scores shown below.

Table 3. Cross Section Evaluation Summary
Project
Objectives Evaluation Criteria
Residential Context Cross Section Evaluation Commercial Context Cross Section Evaluation Edgefield Context Cross Section Evaluation
Separated
Bike Lanes
Sidewalk-Level
Bike Lanes
Sidewalk-
Adjacent Bike
Lanes
Separated
Bike Lanes
Sidewalk-
Level Bike
Lanes
Sidewalk-
Adjacent Bike
Lanes
Parking-
Protected Bike
Lane
Shoulder Bike
Lanes with
Shared-Use
Path
Sidewalk-
Level Bike
Lanes
Shared-Use
Paths Within
Right-of-Way
1 1.1 Promotes economic development by supporting access to
local businesses and business districts for all travel modes. 3 4 4 3 4 4 3 3 4 4
2
2.1 Minimizes impacts to adjacent properties 2 3 3 2 3 3 2 3 1 2
2.2 Can be implemented on an incremental basis through
development 4 3 2 4 3 2 2 4 2 4
2.3 Construction and long-term maintenance costs are equal to
existing costs 2 3 4 2 3 4 3 2 3 4
3
3.1 Creates safe and convenient access for people with
disabilities 2 4 3 2 4 3 3 2 4 3
3.2 Improves street appearance through added landscaping
and street trees 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 3 4 5
3.3 Creates space for adding street furnishing 3 5 4 3 5 4 5 3 4 4
4
4.1 Improves safety for people walking, biking and taking
transit 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 3 4 5
4.2 Increases number and frequency of protected crossings of
Halsey Street 3 5 5 3 5 5 3 3 5 5
4.3 Improves access to adjacent land uses and public transit
facilities and services 2 4 5 2 4 5 3 2 4 5
5
5.1 Incorporates sustainable design strategies 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 4 5
5.2 Creates space for incorporating stormwater facilities 2 4 5 2 4 5 2 4 4 5
5.3 Reduces impervious surfaces 2 3 3 2 3 3 2 2 2 3
5.4 Increases tree canopy coverage in the corridor 4 4 5 4 4 5 4 4 4 5
6
6.1 Slows vehicular traffic 3 4 5 3 4 5 5 3 3 3
6.2 Discourages through truck traffic 3 4 4 3 4 4 5 3 4 4
6.3 Maintains access to local businesses for delivery trucks 2 3 4 2 3 4 2 3 5 5
6.4 Provides low-street pedestrian and bicycle facilities 3 5 5 3 5 5 4 3 5 5
7
7.1 Supported by local property owners, business owners and
operators, and the public. 2 5 5 2 5 5 2 4 2 5
7.2 Consistent with previous planning efforts 1 2 2 1 2 2 1 2 2 2
Total 52 77 83 52 77 83 60 60 70 83

III. PREFERRED ALTERNATIVES
The preferred streetscape and roadway design alternatives are presented below. The alternatives include cross sections for
various context zones along the corridor (residential, commercial, Edgefield), intersection treatments at three major
intesections (NE 223rd Avenue, NE 238th Drive, SW 257th Drive), and enhanced crossings at multiple locations. Based on
direction provided by the project team, the preferred alternatives are presented as both near-term and long-term
solutions.
Near-Term Solutions
This section summarizes the near-term solutions for the NE Halsey Street corridor that could be achieved primarily through
signing and striping modifications. These solutions should be considered as interim measures until the preferred cross
sections, intersection treatments, and enhanced crossings can be constructed. These are low-cost solutions that can
potentially improve comfort and safety of various users as well as encourage slower driving speeds, which is a major
concern along NE Halsey Street.
Near-Term Cross Sections
The near-term cross section reduces the width of the center turn lanes and travel lanes to dedicate more width to the
bicycle lanes, allowing for painted buffers with each on-street bike lane. The sidewalks and planting strips remain
unchanged, and the overall roadway width remains the same.
Most of the corridor currently has 12-foot travel lanes and 13-foot center turn lanes, and some segments have even wider
travel lanes. The near-term cross section proposes to restripe the travel lanes down to 11 feet, the center turn lane down to
12 feet, and the bike lanes down to 5 feet, in which case the remaining 5+ feet can be dedicated to the bike lane buffer. At
locations where the travel lanes are wider than 12 feet, they should also be restriped to 11 feet and the remaining space
should be dedicated to the bike lane buffer. At locations where the bike lane buffer is at least 3 feet, diagonal chevron
striping should be provided within the buffer as well. In locations where parking is provided, the bike lane should be striped
on the inside of the parking lane and a door zone buffer should be provided. Figure 1 illustrates an example of the near-
term cross section within a commercial context zone with on-street parking on one side.

Figure 1: Near-Term Cross Section

Along the Edgefield section, the existing travel lanes are 11 feet wide, while the shoulder bike lanes are 4 feet wide. The
near-term cross section includes widening the shoulder bike lanes to 6-feet along the entire Edgefield segment. This wider
shoulder bike lane can also be used by people walking, as there is no existing sidewalk on this segment.  In addition, the
resulting width of the roadway would be consistent with the long-term solution for the Edgefield context zone as described
below. Figure 2 illustrates the near-term cross section along the Edgefield segment.

Figure 2: Near-Term Cross Section – Edgefield Segment

Additionally, the near-term solution includes speed feedback signs at multiple locations along the corridor, as speeding is
one of the major corridor concerns. According to the Oregon Department of Transportation, speed feedback signs provide
10% reduction in crashes of all types and severities.
Near-Term Intersection Treatments
Figures 3, 4, and 5 illustrate the near-term intersection treatments at three major intersections along NE Halsey Street. As
shown, most of the treatments involve signing and striping modifications, while others involve changes to the traffic signal
equipment. The signing and striping modifications include:
◼ High visibility crosswalks on all legs. The presented crosswalks use perpendicular bar or ladder style markings, but
they can be replaced with longitudinal bar or continental style markings.
◼ Advanced stop bars within all approaching lanes.
◼ Green bike lane conflict striping at driveways, bus pullouts, beginning of the right -turn lanes, and through the
intersection.
◼ Green bike lanes on all intersection approaches and bike boxes along NE Halsey Street.

Other potential near-term treatments include:
◼ Improved lighting, as necessary to meet City and/or County standards.
◼ Countdown pedestrian heads, as necessary to meet MUTCD requirements.
◼ Leading pedestrian intervals, as feasible with existing signal controllers.
◼ No right-turn on red, as feasible without significantly impacting traffic operations.
Figure 3: Near-term Intersection Treatments – NE 223rd Avenue

Figure 4: Near-term Intersection Treatments – NE 238th Drive

Figure 5: Near-term Intersection Treatments – SW 257th Drive

Near-Term Enhanced Crossing Locations
The enhanced crossings section below presents a detailed overview of enhanced crossings along the corridor, including
their locations and treatments. Certain crossings can be constructed on a near-term basis, as the only portion of these
crossings that would require rebuilding as the complete cross section is constructed are the pedestrian ramps along the
sidewalks. The pedestrian refuge islands at these crossings will remain in the same location in the near term, as in the long
term. Figure 6 below presents the locations of near-term crossing locations.
As funds become available, the following crossings can be constructed in the near term:
◼ In front of Reynold Middle School, east of NE 201 st Avenue
◼ West of NE 227th Avenue, in front of the MLA Public Charter School
◼ West of NE 230th Court
◼ West of NE 238th Drive, near Flair Apartments
Additionally, the following existing crossings can also be improved in the near term:
◼ East of NE 206th Avenue – redesign existing refuge islands
◼ East of NE 213th Avenue – redesign existing refuge islands
◼ Intersection with W Historic Columbia River Highway – install RRFB’s and advance warnings
Figure 6: Near-Term Crossing Locations

Long-Term Solutions
This section summarizes the proposed long-term streetscape and roadways design solutions for the NE Halsey Street
corridor. These long-term solutions include preferred cross sections, intersection treatments, and enhanced crossings along
the corridor.
Preferred Cross Sections
The preferred cross sections for the residential, commercial, and Edgefield context zones are presented below. In order to
provide continuity along the entire corridor, the layout of the cross sections are very similar. Each context zone includes
landscaping strips, sidewalk-level separated bike lanes, buffers, and sidewalks. The elements that provide distinction for
each context zone include presence of parking, type and width of planting strips, and width of sidewalks.

Residential Context Zone
The preferred cross section for the residential context zone is shown in Figure 7. This cross section includes two 11-foot
travel lanes and a 12-foot center turn lane or planted median. The cross section also includes 6-foot sidewalks, 6-foot bike
lanes, and 6-foot planting strips, that are all located behind the curb on both sides. There is also a 1-foot buffer between
the sidewalks and bike lanes to provide clear separation between the facilities and improve the comfort of people walking
and biking. The total width of the cross section is 72-feet, which is wider than Multnomah County’s preferred cross section
width (70-feet), but narrower than the County’s minimum right-of-way width (80-feet).
Figure 7: Residential Context Zone

Notes:
1. Planted medians will only occur where there are no driveways or intersections.
2. Planting strips are continuous except for short, paved sections adjacent to on-street parking or in-lane bus stops.
3. Stormwater facilities may be used in place of the planting strips in some areas.
4. Where on-street parking is provided, planting strips would be 8’ long at each tree, with special paving in the strip
between the planters.

On-street parking may be provided on at least one side of the roadway while staying within the County’s minimum right -of-
way width; however, on-street parking is generally not desirable within the residential context zone. Figure 8 illustrates a
plan view of the preferred cross section, including an enhanced pedestrian crossing and in-lane bus stop.
Figure 8: Residential Context Zone Enlargement

Commercial Context Zone
The preferred cross section for the commercial context zone is shown in Figure 9. This cross section includes two 11-foot
travel lanes, a 12-foot center turn lane or planted median, and a 8-foot parking lane on one side. The cross section also
includes 8-foot sidewalks, 6-foot bike lanes, and 4-foot tree wells on both sides. There is also a 1-foot buffer between the
sidewalks and bike lanes to provide clear separation between the facilities and improve the comfort of people walking and
biking. The total width of the cross section is 80-feet, which is wider than Multnomah County’s preferred cross section
width (70-feet – excluding on-street parking), but consistent with the County’s minimum right-of-way width (80-feet).
Figure 9: Commercial Context Zone (Type A)

Notes:
1. Planted medians will only occur where there are no driveways or intersections.
2. Tree wells are 4’ x 6’ with special paving between.
3. Tree wells will include tree grates to maximize space for pedestrians and furnishings.

Figure 10 illustrates a plan view of the preferred cross section, including an enhanced pedestrian crossing.

Figure 10: Commercial Context Zone Enlargement (Type A)

On-street parking may also be provided on both sides of the roadway within the commercial context zone; however, it
would require eliminating the center turn lane and reconfiguring the roadway with a two -lane cross section to stay within
the County’s minimum right-of-way width. An example of a two-lane cross section with on-street parking on both sides is
shown in Figure 11. This cross section layout is proposed along a portion of the corridor in Fairview, between NE Village
Street and NE 223rd Avenue, but could also be applied elsewhere.

Figure 11: Commercial Context Zone (Type B)

Notes:
1. Tree wells are 4’ x 6’ with special paving between.
2. Tree wells will include tree grate to maximize space for pedestrians and furnishings.

Edgefield Context Zone
The preferred cross section for the Edgefield context zone is shown in Figure 12. This cross section includes two 11-foot
travel lanes and a 12-foot center turn lane or planted median. The cross section also includes 6-foot sidewalks, 6-foot bike
lanes, and 6-foot tree wells on both sides. There is also a 1-foot buffer between the sidewalks and bike lanes to provide
clear separation between the facilities and improve the comfort of people walking and biking. The total width of the cross
section is 72-feet, which is wider than Multnomah County’s preferred cross section width (70-feet), but narrower than the
County’s minimum right-of-way width (80-feet).
Figure 12: Edgefield Context Zone

Notes:
1. Planted medians will only occur where there are no driveways or intersections.
2. Planting strips are continuous except for short, paved sections adjacent to in-lane bus stops.
3. Stormwater facilities may be used in place of the planting strips in some areas.

On-street parking may be provided on at least one side of the roadway while staying within the County’s minimum right -of-
way width; however, on-street parking is generally not desirable within the Edgefield context zone. Figure 13 illustrates a
plan view of the preferred cross section, including an enhanced pedestrian crossing and in-lane bus stop.

Figure 13: Edgefield Context Zone Enlargement

Preferred Intersection Treatments
The preferred intersection treatments for the NE 223rd Avenue, NE 238th Drive, and SW 257th Drive intersections are
presented below. These improvements are intended to improve multimodal access and circulation along the corridor
without significantly impacting the capacity of the intersections or limiting the potential for large truck turning movements.
In order to provide continuity along the corridor, the types of treatments included at each intersection are similar.

NE Halsey Street/NE 223rd Avenue
The preferred alternative at the NE Halsey Street/NE 223rd Avenue intersection is illustrated in Figure 14. The alternative
includes several enhanced features, including:
◼ Improved lighting, as necessary to meet City and/or County standards.
◼ Improved signal equipment, including: countdown pedestrian signal heads, as necessary to meet MUTCD
requirements; leading pedestrian intervals, as feasible with existing signal controllers; and no right-turn on red, as
feasible without significantly impacting traffic operations.
◼ Improved signing and striping, including: high visibility crosswalk signs and pavement markings on all legs,
advanced stop bars within all approaching lanes, green bicycle crossing striping on all legs
◼ Limited or restricted access to land uses in the southwest corner of the intersection
Figure 14: Proposed Intersection Design at NE 223 rd Avenue & NE Halsey Street

Final design of the NE Halsey Street/NE 223rd Avenue intersection should consider potential impacts to adjacent
properties, including access. The final design should also consider the potential for protected intersection and other
enhanced treatments. Figure 15 below presents a draft concept developed as part of a separate project.

Figure 15: NE 223rd Avenue Protected Intersection Concept

NE Halsey Street/NE 238th Drive
The preferred alternative at the NE Halsey Street/NE 238th Drive intersection is illustrated in Figure 16. The alternative
includes several enhanced features, including:
◼ Improved lighting, as necessary to meet City and/or County standards.
◼ Improved signal equipment, including: countdown pedestrian signal heads, as necessary to meet MUTCD
requirements; leading pedestrian intervals, as feasible with existing signal controllers; and no right-turn on red, as
feasible without significantly impacting traffic operations.
◼ Improved signing and striping: high visibility crosswalk signs and pavement markings on all legs, advanced stop
bars within all approaching lanes, green bicycle crossing striping on all legs
Figure 16: Proposed Intersection Design at NE 238th Drive & NE Halsey Street

Final design of the NE Halsey Street/NE 238th Drive intersection should consider potential impacts to adjacent properties,
including access. The final design should also consider the potential for protected intersection and other enhanced
treatments as documented in Tech Memo #3: Alternatives Analysis.

SW Halsey Street/SW 257th Drive
The preferred alternative at the SW 257th Drive intersection is illustrated in Figure 17. The alternative includes several
enhanced features, including:
◼ Improved lighting at all intersection corners
◼ Improved signal equipment, including: countdown pedestrian signal heads, as necessary to meet MUTCD
requirements; leading pedestrian intervals, as feasible with existing signal controllers; and no right-turn on red, as
feasible without significantly impacting traffic operations.
◼ Improved signing and striping: high visibility crosswalk signs and pavement markings on all legs, advanced stop
bars within all approaching lanes, green bicycle crossing striping on all legs
Figure 17: Proposed Intersection Design at SW 257th Drive & SW Halsey Street

Final design of the NE Halsey Street/NE 257th Drive intersection should consider potential impacts to adjacent properties,
including access. The final design should also consider the potential for protected intersection and other enhanced
treatments as documented in Tech Memo #3: Alternatives Analysis.

IV. DESIGN IMPLEMENTATION
This section presents considerations for various elements of the corridor design. Linear Design Plans 1, 2, and 3 below
present the proposed liner design plan for the NE Halsey Street corridor.
Key Considerations
Key considerations in the streetscape design process were developed at the outset of the project and documented in Tech
Memo #2: Cross Section Deficiencies and Needs. The key considerations were refined throughout the planning process and
are provided below.
◼ NE Halsey Street is a Multnomah County facility and classified as a minor arterial. Multnomah County is
responsible for defining its major design elements and multimodal features , which were considered in developing
the preferred cross sections.
◼ The three cities (Fairview, Wood Village, and Troutdale) are responsible for approving land use applications and
providing conditions of approval for private development. Any development on or near a road or other right-of-
way owned by the County (NE Halsey Street) requires a transportation planning review by the County as part of
the land use decision. The review will identify what impacts the project will have on the transportation system and
how these effects may be offset with frontage improvements and/or dedication as part of its conditions of
approval.
◼ The existing facilities on NE Halsey Street do not provide a safe and comfortable environment for people walking,
biking, or taking transit. In addition, the facilities tend to encourage high traffic volumes and travel speeds along
the corridor, especially from through and heavy vehicle traffic.
◼ NE Halsey Street has many essential destinations as well as existing and well-established natural features and
urban design elements that encourage crossing activity at key locations along the corridor. These destinations,
features, and elements were considered and emphasized when developing a preferred cross section and when
identifying potential crossing locations.
◼ The community has been engaged on several occasions over the last several years on the form and function of NE
Halsey Street. Their input has been incorporated into the planning process.
◼ Recommendations from prior planning efforts, such as previous phases of the Main Streets on Hal sey project, were
considered in developing the corridor design.
The corridor design presented in this memorandum is intended to address the following corridor concerns:
◼ Potential refinements to Multnomah County’s standard cross section for NE Halsey Street (perhaps through an
overlay) that enhance multimodal access and circulation – the cross sections were designed to reflect various
context zones along the corridor (residential, commercial, Edgefield).
◼ Potential improvements at several key intersections along the corridor (NE 223 rd Avenue, NE 238th Drive, SW 257th
Drive) to enhance traffic operations and safety for all travel modes.
◼ Potential improvements at several mid-block crosswalks along the corridor to enhance access and circulation for
people walking, biking, and accessing transit as well as other adjacent land uses.

Key Map
Key Map
Key Map
Fairview
Fairview
Fairview
NE 201st Ave
NE Halsey St
NE Halsey St
NE 205th Ave
 NE 208th Pl
NE Fairview Pkwy
NE 213th Ave
NE Market Dr
 NE Village St
Gresham
NE Wasco St
NE 196th Ave
NE Halsey St
Residential ContextZone Enlargement
Redesign existing refuge islands
Relocate bus stop
Relocate bus stop
 Redesign existing refuge islands
Add parking if the adjacentland uses redevelop
0’ 200’
LINEAR DESIGN PLAN 1
City Limits
Residential Context Zone
Commercial Context Zone
Edgefield Context Zone
Other / Open Space
Enhanced Pedestrian Crossing
Proposed Intersection Improvements
Special Opportunity Area
Bus Stops
Legend
Reynolds Learning AcademyReynolds SD Park & RideConnection to Gresham-Fairview Trail, and Potential Trailhead ImprovementsGresham Fairview TrailRenolds SD Baseball DiamondPotential Connection to Salish Ponds City TrailVA Outpatient Clinic
Key Notes
1
1
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
3
7
6
4
5
MATCHLINE SEE BELOW LEFT
MATCHLINE SEE ABOVE RIGHT
MATCHLINE SEE BELOW LEFT
MATCHLINE SEE ABOVE RIGHT
MATCHLINE SEE MAP 2
Key Map
Key Map
Key Map
Fairview
 NE Halsey St
NE 223rd Ave
Fairview  Ave
NE Halsey St
NE Halsey St
NE 238th Dr
NE 240th Ave
Fairview
Wood Village
Wood Village
Troutdale
NE 244th Ave
0’ 200’
4
7
10
11
11
9
 12
8
LINEAR DESIGN PLAN 2
City Limits
Residential Context Zone
Commercial Context Zone
Edgefield Context Zone
Other / Open Space
Enhanced Pedestrian Crossing
Proposed Intersection Improvements
Special Opportunity Area
Bus Stops
Legend
Fairview CreekMarilyn’s Park - Opportunity to Highlight Fairview CreekFairview Food Plaza and “The Fork”Ukrainian Bible ChurchAccess to Fairview Woods Wetland ParkMt. Hood Community College Head Start - FairviewThe Byway Retail / DiningWood Village City Hall and Civic CenterDonald L. Robertson City ParkReynolds School DistrictArata CreekOpportunity to Highlight ArataCreek
Key Notes
1
2
3
4
5
7
6
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
5
6
Birch Ave
NE 230th Ct
Wood Village Blvd
NE 227th Ave
Commercial ContextZone Enlargement
Proposed Intersection Design
Proposed Intersection Design
Limiteddrivewayaccess
Add parking if the adjacentland uses redevelop
Parking to be added only with a future road project or significant redevelopment
MATCHLINE SEE BELOW LEFT
MATCHLINE SEE ABOVE RIGHT
MATCHLINE SEE BELOW LEFT
MATCHLINE SEE ABOVE RIGHT
MATCHLINE SEE MAP 3
MATCHLINE SEE MAP 1
Key Map
Key Map
Key Map
Troutdale
Troutdale
Troutdale
SW Halsey St
SW Halsey St
SW Halsey St
E Columbia River Hwy
SW Halsey St
Historic Columbia River Hwy
Edgeﬁeld ContextZone Enlargement
Crossing to be located in conjunctionwith development of Edgefieldnorth property
Relocate crossing
Install RRFBand advancedwarning
Relocatebus stop
SW 257th Dr
SW Halsey Loop
SW Halsey Loop
0’ 200’
2
3
1
LINEAR DESIGN PLAN 3
City Limits
Residential Context Zone
Commercial Context Zone
Edgefield Context Zone
Other / Open Space
Enhanced Pedestrian Crossing
Proposed Intersection Improvements
Special Opportunity Area
Bus Stops
Legend
McMenamins EdgefieldTroutdale Station Food CartsTroutdale Gateway Sign
Key Notes
1
2
3
SW Owens Pl
SW Lancaster Ct
SW Edgefield Pl
Proposed Intersection Design
MATCHLINE SEE BELOW LEFT
MATCHLINE SEE ABOVE RIGHT
MATCHLINE SEE BELOW LEFT
MATCHLINE SEE ABOVE RIGHT MATCHLINE SEE MAP 2

Elements of Distinction and Continuity
When selecting standards in future design stages for visible items like light poles, furnishings, and planting, the following
categories provide an intentional divide that emphasizes the unique character of each city, while also tying the corridor
together visually as a cohesive whole.
Elements of Distinction
These elements express the individual character of each city and provide visual cues to people as they move from one city
to the next.
◼ Gateway features
◼ Public art
◼ Street tree and plant palette, in the planting strips and planted medians
◼ Tree grates
◼ Storm grates
◼ Event-specific banners on the light poles
◼ Paver color and pattern, or other materials, in the buffer separating the sidewalk from the bike lane
◼ Bridges and culverts
◼ Hanging flower baskets (but having these should be agreed to as an Element of Continuity)
Elements of Continuity
These elements visually unite the corridor.
◼ Halsey Corridor Branding elements, including wayfinding features
◼ Light poles with banner brackets
◼ Seasonal or year-round banners (between events) on the light poles, derived from the corridor branding
◼ Benches
◼ Drinking fountains
◼ Bike racks
◼ Trash receptacles
◼ Paving: roadway, sidewalks, bike lanes, and crosswalks
◼ Building signage standards
◼ Bus stops
◼ Landscape maintenance (all by one entity)
◼ Move utilities underground, over time

Corridor Branding
The three cities of Fairview, Wood Village and Troutdale engaged with Arnett Muldrow, a creative planning firm with
specialized expertise in “Place Branding”. Arnett Muldrow was charged with developing a recognizable brand for Halsey
Street as it passes through the three cities. This brand will be used to help market the cor ridor to residents and visitors to
the region who may come through on their way to and from the Columbia River Gorge, Mt. Hood , and Central Oregon. This
brand will be used to promote economic development, shopping, dining, entertainment, and redevelopment opportunities
along NE Halsey Street.
The brand is built on some of the attributes for the landscape and culture currently found in this part of East Multnomah
County. Key words used to describe the area include Nature, Recreation, Gather, and Discovery. In many ways, this reach of
NE Halsey Street is a bridge that links the urbanity of the Portland Metropolitan Area with the rural and natural
environments of the Columbia River Gorge and Cascades. The branding effort is ongoing, with the brand name still to be
finalized by the three cities. Several of the branding name options that are being considered are illustrated below.

The preferred streetscape and roadway design alternative illustrated in this tech memo reflects this branding direction for
NE Halsey Street. It is desired that the branding be incorporated into the streetscape, signage , and visual environment of
the NE Halsey Street corridor.
Design Directions
Planting
Streetscape planting can create a strong visual character for the corridor with changing interest across the seasons, while
also increasing safety, providing environmental benefits, and raising property values. Planting areas can also be used to
manage stormwater, as described below.

Street Trees
As the biggest objects in the streetscape, street trees are one of the main elements that define the visual character of the
corridor. They also shade the surrounding paving, intercept stormwater before it hits the ground, filter air pollutants, and
absorb carbon dioxide. The trunks lined up along each curb and in planted medians also tend to calm traffic speeds,
increasing safety for all road users.
Tree species should be selected carefully for the available space and growing conditions, with an emphasis on tough,
drought tolerant species that can handle reflected heat. A variety of species should be used in small groups, rather than a
monoculture that would be at risk of a mass failure from an unknown future disease.
In the Commercial Context Zone, street trees will be planted with tree grates to maximize space for pedestrians and
furnishings. In the Residential and Edgefield Context Zones, street trees will be planted in the planting strips. Street trees
should also be included in planted medians, as applicable.
Providing adequate volume of quality, uncompacted soil for the tree roots is critical to the trees’ growth and long-term
health. Typical urban tree planting pits do not provide enough soil volume and result in smaller, short-lived trees that
increase costs for maintenance or replacement, have shallow roots that disturb paving, and can potentially become safety
hazards. With enough soil volume, street trees will be bigger and healthier, live longer, require less maintenance, not
impact surrounding paving, and provide more of the environmental and social benefits described above.
When trees are planted in small tree wells or narrow planting strips, soil volume can be increased by  using a structure to
support the surrounding paving while preventing soil compaction. There are a variety of custom suspended paving system
options or modular products that can achieve this, such as Silva Cells . The higher initial investment for creating adequate
soil volume will pay off over time with higher performing trees that live longer and require less maintenance.
Planting Strips
Located between vehicle traffic and the sidewalk, the planting strips in Residential and Edgefield Context Zones provide a
welcome buffer and enhance the pedestrian experience. In addition to the street trees, planting strips can host shrubs,
groundcovers, and ornamental grasses. Plants should generally be less than 30” height to not block visibility. All species
should be tough and drought-tolerant, and there should be a diversity of colors, textures, forms, flowers, and evergreen vs.
deciduous leaves.
Planted Medians
Where the center turn lane is not needed for turning into a driveway or cross street, it should instead be a raised planted
median with street trees and plantings like the planting strips. The refuge islands at enhanced pedestrian crossings are like
planted medians, except they should not include trees. The added vegetation in medians will contribute to the vibrant
character of the corridor, and the extra row of tree trunks will visually narrow the roadway which will further calm traffic
and increase safety.
Maintenance
Careful plant selection, quality planting soil, and adequate soil volume for trees will minimize maintenance costs over time.
Plants and trees should be chosen that do not drop fruit, large leaves, or other significant debris. Broadleaf evergreen trees
such as live oaks will drop far fewer leaves per year than the typical deciduous street trees , as well as providing a green
presence throughout the winter. The mature sizes of all plants need to be considered, as well as their placement relative to
paving edges, to minimize or eliminate the need for annual trimming.

Stormwater Facilities
Stormwater planters and rain gardens manage both the volume and water quality of the runoff, and will be located in the
planting strips or in the wider curb extension at some intersections and enhanced pedestrian crossings. Runoff from the
roadway, sidewalk, and bike lane directly enters these facilities through curb cuts, and then infiltrates through the soil.
There will typically be an overflow drain in each facility that connects to the storm sewer.
Vegetated stormwater facilities are planted with native or adapted wetland plants that thrive in wet conditions and are also
drought tolerant. Since they are close to the roadway, most plants should be no more than three feet tall, so they do not
block visibility of pedestrians or cross traffic. Occasional maintenance will be required to remove trash that washes into the
facilities, remove weeds, and top off the mulch.
The strategies described above to increase soil volume for street trees can also be useful for stormwater management, by
directing runoff into the trees’ root zones. This frees up space in the constrained urban environment by reducing the area
needed for other types of stormwater facilities. While stormwater trees are increasingly being implemented in other places
like Minneapolis, Vancouver BC, and Sweden, they are not currently an established stormwater BMP in this area so they
would likely need to be considered a pilot program.
Larger stormwater facilities can be an opportunity for more expressive planting  and other materials, and can be a highly
visible venue for public art.
Off-Street Facilities Materials
There are two off-street facilities for which building material options should be considered:
◼ Bike lane: Two primary materials that could be considered for construction of the separated bicycle facility,
include asphalt and concrete.
– The main benefit of constructing the bike lane out of asphalt is that it will reduce the project cost by
approximately 30%. Additionally, constructing the bike lane out of a different material than the sidewalk would
provide a clear distinction between the space that is dedicated to people biking and the space dedicated to
people walking. At intersections, the mixing zone for people biking and walking can be constructed out of
concrete, which would provide an additional cue to people biking that they need to yield to people walking.
– The benefits of constructing the bike lane out of concrete are aesthetic reasons and the ability to use colored
concrete. Colored concrete creates a welcoming environment for people biking and can provide visual cues to
people driving that they need to yield to cyclists.
◼ The Buffer between bike lane and sidewalk: there are many materials that can be used for providing a visual and
tactile separation between the bike lane and sidewalk. It should be a material of contrast color and texture so that
people with visual impairments could use it for navigating the sidewalk. This buffer space should not be simply
painted.
Driveways
There are many driveways along NE Halsey Street, which provide access to a combination of single-family, multi-family
residential and commercial uses. The linear design plan provides limited access management recommendations; however,
the plan provides guidance for typical treatments at driveways. These treatments are intended to increase driver’s
awareness of people walking and biking, while accommodating private vehicles and delivery trucks.
The linear design plan recommends maintaining the level of the sidewalk and the bike lane consistent across driveways. The
width of the landscaping buffer (6-feet in residential zones and 4-feet in commercial zones) can be utilized for constructing

driveway aprons. If additional width is needed, the bike lane can also be used for providing appropriate driveway apron
grades. The following provides guidance for minor and major driveways along the corridor.
◼ Minor driveways: these driveways serve single-family homes or small multi-family developments. They typically
experience a relatively small volume of vehicular traffic – less than 20 trips a day. At these types of locations,
bicycle conflict striping is optional. Figure 18 illustrates an example treatment at a minor driveway in Cambridge,
Massachusetts.
◼ Major driveways: These driveways serve commercial uses or large multi-family developments. They typically
experience a relatively large volume of vehicular traffic – more than 20 trips a day. At these locations, the plan
recommends providing bicycle conflict striping as shown in Figure 19, or utilizing colored concrete as shown in
Figure 20. If colored concrete is utilized for the bike lane, it should be green color for consistency with other
treatments along the corridor. The design should also consider providing yield pavement markings for vehicles at
major driveways to warn them about pedestrian and bicycle movements.
Figure 18: Example Treatment at Minor Driveways (Cambridge, Massachusetts)

Image Source: Google Maps Streetview

Figure 19: Example Treatment of Conflict Striping at Driveways (Portland, Oregon)

Image Source: Google Maps Streetview
Figure 20: Example Treatment at Major Driveways (Clackamas, Oregon)
Image Source: Google Maps Streetview

On-Street Parking
On-street parking is proposed along most commercial corridor segments on at least one side of the street. In a few
segments, parking is proposed on both sides of the street, dependent on the context of  the adjacent properties and the
available right-of-way. Parking zones can also be used for loading-and-unloading zones for local delivery trucks.
The linear design plan proposes to keep on-street parking 8-feet wide along the 3-lane cross section of the corridor and 8-ft
wide along the 2-lane cross section. At bus-stop and mid-block crossing locations the plan proposes to introduce curb
extensions for the width of the parking lane to improve pedestrian user experience and safety. Figure 21 illustrates a typical
on-street parking layout along the corridor.
Figure 21: Typical Corridor On-Street Parking Layout (West of NE Halsey St and NE 238th Drive)

Transit Stops
Transit stops are located at multiple points along the corridor. Some stops are recommended to be relocated while some
are recommended to be enhanced to accommodate the preferred cross section . Per direction from TriMet, bus stops are
proposed to be in-lane at most locations, except for major signalized intersections, where existing pull-outs are proposed to
remain. The benefit of maintaining in-lane stops along most of the corridor is to minimize transit delays caused by the bus
needing to merge back into traffic after a stop.
Figure 22 shows an example of proposed treatment for in-lane bus stops and right-of-way constrained bus pullouts. At such
locations, the plan recommends narrowing the bike lane to four or five feet to increase the pedestrian waiting area. The
width of the landscaping buffer (four feet in commercial and six feet in residential zones) should be used for providing bus
loading and unloading area. The design should utilize pavement markings and signs to require bicyclists to stop for
pedestrians.
Where right-of-way allows, the waiting area should be increased to 10 or 12 feet and the bike lane should be moved to the
back of the waiting area, as shown in Figure 23. At bus pullouts at intersections, the plan suggests concrete like shown in
Figure 22 or painting the roadway with red paint, like shown in Figure 23.
Bus shelters should be installed at all bus stops, where the right-of-way is available. Bus shelters provide wind, rain, and sun
cover and significantly increase the user experience. Additional lighting should also be provided at all bus stops for
improved security, as lighting is one of the major corridor concerns expressed by the community.
Figure 22: Example Proposed Typical Bus Stop Treatment (Portland, Oregon)
Image Source: Google Maps Streetview

Figure 23: Example Bus Pullout Treatment (Portland, Oregon)

Image Source: Google Maps Streetview
Enhanced Crossings
NE Halsey Street currently has numerous enhanced crossings at major intersections and midblock locations within the study
corridor; however, there are several long stretches between intersections with no designated crossings. These are an
inconvenience for residents and other pedestrians who go out of their way to use the designated crossings, and a potential
safety hazard when they choose to cross the street between designated crossings.
Crossing Treatments
As presented in Tech Memo #3: Alternatives Analysis, the typical components of an enhanced crossing increase user safety
and comfort by reducing the crossing distance and by providing appropriate signage, striping, and beacons. Figure 24
illustrates the following components included in the linear design plan at all mid-block crossings along NE Halsey Street:
◼ Continental style crosswalk markings
◼ Advanced stop bars with “Stop Here for Pedestrians” signage
◼ Crosswalk signage
◼ Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons (RRFBs) with audible pushbuttons
Additionally, 3-lane segments include pedestrian refuge islands, as shown in Figure 24, and locations with on-street parking
include curb extensions, as shown in Figure 25.

Figure 24: Typical Enhanced Pedestrian Crossing with a Refuge Island

Image Source: Google Maps Streetview
Figure 25: Example Pedestrian Crossing with a Refuge Island and Curb Extensions (Portland, Oregon)

Image Source: Google Maps Streetview

Crossing Locations
Tech Memo #3: Alternatives Analysis identifies three locations for enhanced crossings, and the linear design plan identifies
an additional nine crossing locations, which brings the total of proposed crossings to 12. This results in an average spacing
of 620 feet between mid-block and protected intersection crossings. The Blueprint for Urban Design (ODOT, 2021)
recommends a target spacing of 500 to 1,000-feet along commercial and residential corridors. Additionally, the plan
recommends relocating or enhancing six of the existing crossings, which are outlined below. All existing and future crossing
locations are presented in Figure 26.
Proposed enhanced pedestrian crossings include (from west to east):
◼ In front of Reynold Middle School, east of NE 201st Avenue
◼ West of NE 208th Place, at the existing bus stop
◼ Two crossings at the proposed roundabout at Fairview Parkway
◼ West of NE Market Drive, at the existing bus stop
◼ East of NE Village Street, west of the Stomping Grounds Coffee House driveway
◼ West of NE 223rd Avenue, west of the Scrubby’s Express Lube and Car Wash driveway
◼ West of NE 227th Avenue, in front of the MLA Public Charter School
◼ West of NE 230th Court
◼ West of NE 238th Drive, near Flair Apartments
◼ East of 224th Avenue, near westmost Edgefield driveway
◼ Between 224th Avenue and SW Lancaster Court, near the Edgefield bus stop
◼ West of SW Halsey Loop (East)
Upgraded existing pedestrian crossings include (from west to east):
◼ East of NE 206th Avenue – redesign existing refuge islands
◼ East of NE 213th Avenue – redesign existing refuge islands
◼ West of NE Wood Village Boulevard – construct curb extension on the south side
◼ West of NE 224th Avenue – construct curb extension on the south side
◼ West of SW Edgefield Meadows Avenue – relocate crossing 60 feet to the west and construct refuge islands
◼ Intersection with W Historic Columbia River Highway – install RRFB’s and advance warnings

Figure 26: Existing and Proposed Mid-Block Crossing Locations

Major Street Intersections
There are four major street intersections along the NE Halsey Street corridor, including NE Fairview Parkway, NE 223rd
Avenue, NE 238th Drive, and SW 257th Drive. While the NE Fairview Parkway intersection is expected to be reconfigured as a
multi-lane roundabout, all other major street intersections are expected to remain as traffic signals . As indicated above, the
linear design plan includes enhanced features at each intersection and identifies the potential for additional features, such
as protected intersection treatments. The following provides additional details on bike lanes at the major intersections.
Figure 27 below illustrates an example of how sidewalk-level bike lanes could be handled at major street intersections. As
illustrated, the bike lanes are to be lowered down to the roadway level and the bike crossing s are to be located near the
pedestrian crossings. This treatment would best improve visibility of people walking and biking. Additionally, pavement
markings and signs should require bicyclists to yield to pedestrians at intersections.
Figure 27: Example Major Intersection Treatment (Cambridge, Massachusetts)

Image Source: Google Maps Streetview

Minor Street Intersections
There are approximately 16 unsignalized, minor street intersections along the NE Halsey Street corridor. Some of them have
four legs, but most are three-legged intersections. These intersections experience a higher volume of vehicular traffic than
major driveways, therefore it is even more important to properly delineate space for people biking and walking to minimize
conflicts with vehicles. The plan includes two options for minor-street approach treatments:
Raised Crosswalks
One of the major concerns along NE Halsey Street is increased vehicular speeds. Traffic calming can be provided by
introducing vertical features, like raised crosswalks. They are designed to be flush with the sidewalk, thus providing
approximately a gradual 6-inch rise. Where possible, the plan suggests introducing raised crosswalks across minor street
approaches for people walking and biking. Raised crosswalks allow people to cross the street at the same level as the
sidewalk and the elevated bike lane. They make crossings more comfortable for non-motorized users, especially people
using wheelchairs or other mobility devices. Figure 28 presents an example of a raised crosswalk that allows people walking
and biking to cross the street at continuous level.
Figure 28: Example Raised Crosswalk

Photo Source: The City of Boston
Conflict Striping
Another design option for minor street intersections is to bring the bicycle lane and the sidewalk down to the roadway
level. It is a less expensive design option, but it provides fewer benefits in terms of traffic calming and the user experien ce
of people walking and biking. Figure 29 illustrates an example from NE Halsey Street, west of the study corridor.

Figure 29: Minor Street Conflict Striping Example (Portland, Oregon)

Photo Source: Google Maps
V. COST ESTIMATES
Planning level cost estimates were prepared for the preferred cross sections, intersection treatments, and enhanced
crossings based on unit costs from similar projects completed in the northwest. The cost estimates include the total cost to
implement the long-term solutions along the 3.5-mile segment of NE Halsey Street, the total cost to implement the long-
term solutions within the three cities (Fairview, Wood Village, Troutdale), and the total cost to implement the preferred
cross-section per linear foot within the three context zones (residential, commercial, and Edgefield). Table 4 summarizes
the cost estimates. A list of detailed bid items and cost estimate assumptions are documented in Appendix E.
Table 4. Cost Estimates
Units
Construction
Cost
Engineering
Support (25%)
Contingency
(40%) Total Cost
3.5-Mile Corridor $34.5M $8.7M $13.8M $57.0M
Fairview City Limits $16.2M $4.1M $6.5M $26.8M
Wood Village City Limits $7.3M $1.8M $2.9M $12.0M
Troutdale City Limits $11.0M $2.8M $4.4M $18.2M
Residential Context Zone (LF) $1,300 $320 $650 $2,270
Commercial Context Zone 2-Lane (LF) $1,350 $340 $680 $2,370
Commercial Context Zone 3-Lane (LF) $1,430 $360 $720 $2,510
Edgefield Context Zone (LF) $1,220 $300 $610 $2,130

VI. LAND USE AND CODE EVALUATION
In 2021, as part of an earlier phase of the project, development code amendments were proposed for each city to
implement the Main Streets on Halsey vision and recommendations. Specifically, the amendments include a Storefront
District and establish building and site design standards intended to implement the Halsey Mainstreet design and
development concepts. The code amendments were adopted by Fairview and Wood Village, and proposed amendments for
Troutdale will be considered in 2024. Staff from Fairview and Wood Village indicated that the updated standards and
requirements generally meet the land use implementation objectives for the Main Streets on Halsey project.
Land Use Opportunities and Alternatives Evaluation
The project team coordinated with City staff representatives to define and agree to conduct  targeted, site-specific land use
opportunities and alternatives analysis to support implementation of the Halsey Main Streets concepts. This analysis is
documented in Tech Memo #4: Land Use and Transportation Alternatives (TM 4). The purpose of this exercise was to
identify potential rezoning or other land use/transportation interventions to support the transportation and land use
objectives of the project. Sites either within or near each city’s Storefront District were identifi ed based on their
development/redevelopment potential to help activate a walkable, mixed-use environment. Sites were also evaluated for
their possible relationship with streetscape improvements and opportunities to integra te with multimodal and main street
design concepts that were identified in Tech Memo #3: Alternatives Analysis. The general locations for the opportunity sites
are shown in Figure 30. See TM 4 for more details on the land use alternatives and opportunities that were considered for
the identified sites.
Figure 30: Land Use Alternative Areas in Fairview, Wood Village, and Troutdale

Assessment of Potential Development Code Updates
Project team members continued to coordinate and discuss how best to follow up on previous project work and add value
to earlier corridor planning phases regarding additional amendments to local development codes. The efforts described in
the remainder of this section reflect those conversations. The Cities of Wood Village and Troutdale have indicated that they
do not anticipate a need for code amendments to support the land use alternatives and opportunities identified in TM 4 for
their respective jurisdictions. However, some of the alternatives that were considered for Fairview may necessitate code
amendments to remove barriers and enable land use and development opportunities that are compatible with the

preferred streetscape design alternatives. The project team is considering the following potential updates to the Fairview
code to support implementation of Halsey Main Street:
◼ Double-frontage, orientation, and access standards in the Town Center Commercial and Storefront districts
◼ Exceptions to setback requirements
◼ Exceptions to height step back requirements
◼ Exceptions to design standards
Fairview’s requirements and standards for each of these code areas are summarized below. Each summary includes a brief
assessment of potential code barriers and preliminary amendment options.
Lot Dimension and Building Orientation Options
Table 4 assesses certain code standards/requirements related to building orientation, lot dimensions, and other standards
that may be a barrier to development that supports walkable main street environment in the TCC and Storefront districts.
The code language or standards that may be an issue and/or considered for amendment are formatted in bold text under
the “Applicable Code Language” column. These code sections were identified based on discussions with staff and some of
the site-specific challenges that were discussed in TM 4. In addition, City of Fairview staff and developers have generally
expressed a need for additional flexibility for various development and design requirements in the TCC district, w hich may
serve as a model for offering design/development flexibility in other zones and overlay districts. A component of allowing
more flexibility may be to establish a list of design and development exceptions. Clear and reasonable exceptions may
enable development to still meet the intent and purpose of the TCC zone without having to navigate additional approval
processes that can deter development from occurring.

Table 4: Potential Updates for FMC Sections
FMC Section and Potential Issue Area Applicable Code Language Assessment and Potential Code Update Options
FMC 19.65.040 Building Orientation
and Setbacks
Exceptions for setback requirements –
The City is exploring increasing
flexibility for setback requirements.
Some sites in the TCC/Storefront
districts have constraints in the
setback area that may be challenging
for developers to resolve under the
current setback requirements.
Building setbacks are measured from the wall or facade to the
respective property line. The setback standards, as listed on the
following page, apply to primary structures as well as accessory
structures. The standards may be modified only by approval of a
variance.
Any deviations to the setback requirements in the
TCC district may only be granted through the City’s
variance process. Typically, the burden of proof to
approve a variance is relatively onerous and the
extent of the variance is limited, making it a
challenge to use this process. To enable additional
flexibility, the City may consider exceptions where it
is difficult or not practical to meet the maximum
setback due to existing site constraints. The City
may consider maximum exceptions to help ensure
that setbacks are still maintaining the storefront
scale that is intended for Halsey (e.g., exception up
to an additional 20 feet).
Note that this section of the FMC already has
provisions for exceptions, however they only apply
to architectural features that encroach into the
setback area.
FMC 19.65.040 Building Orientation
and Setbacks
Double frontage – Some of the sites
evaluated in TM 4 had multiple
frontages. Frontage improvement
requirements for double-frontage
parcels may affect the location/design
of streetscape improvements on
Halsey, including setback
requirements.
2. Maximum Setback:
b. Applicability.
iii. On corner lots with or lots with more than one frontage, the
maximum setback only applies to the street property line which
abuts the higher classification street. If the lot abuts two streets of
the same classification, then the applicant may select which street
property line the maximum setback applies to.
Some of the corner properties in the storefront
district front onto streets that are a higher
functional classification than Halsey Street, such as
Fairview Parkway. If the intention of the Storefront
district is to ensure all buildings/development along
Halsey face the street, then the City may consider
amendments to clarify that this provision does not
apply to corner properties in the Storefront district.
In addition, the City may consider that the
maximum setback/frontage requirements apply to
Halsey in the Storefront district.
FMC 19.65.040 Building Orientation
and Setbacks
Maximum setbacks – some sites may
have difficulty meeting the maximum
setback standard due to exiting
constraints, including drainage
2. Maximum Setback:
c. Standards.
i. Maximum Setback. Unless otherwise specified, the maximum a
building can be set back from a street lot line is 10 feet. On sites
within a storefront district, at least 75 percent of the length of the
ground level street-facing facade of the building must meet the
See assessment for setback exceptions above for
options on how the City may address properties that
cannot meet the maximum setback due to site
constraints.
  Technical Memorandum #5 Page 47 of 49

easements and existing utilities for one
of the identified opportunity sites.
maximum setback standard. On all other sites, at least 50 percent
of the length of the ground level street-facing facade of the building
must meet the maximum setback standard. Eaves, chimneys, bay
windows, overhangs, cornices, awnings, canopies, porches, decks,
pergolas, and similar architectural features on the facade do not
count towards meeting the maximum setback standard. The
standard applies to the facade wall.
FMC 19.65.040 Building Orientation
and Setbacks
Setback Improvements – Some sites
may be unable to meet setback
improvements due to existing site
constraints or right-of-way issues. As
mentioned above, one of the
opportunity sites has an existing
drainage easement and public sewer
that would be within the setback area.
2. Maximum Setback:
c. Standards.
ii. Improvements in the Setback Between a Building and a Street Lot
Line. The land between any building and a street lot line must be
landscaped to at least the standards of FMC 19.163.030(E)(1)
and/or hard surfaced for use by pedestrians.
Some properties in the Storefront district may be
unable to meet landscaping or hard
surfacing/pedestrian improvement requirements
due to challenges with easements and utilities. The
City may also consider specific exceptions for these
cases that include provisions to ensure the frontage
still maintains cohesion with neighboring storefront
properties. For example, landscaping criteria may
include specific types of landscaping that also serve
as a drainage or stormwater facility, such as
bioswales or street planters.
FMC 19.65.050 Block Layout
Requirements for alley or interior
parking court
B. Block Layout Standard.
1. New land divisions and developments with more than one
building, which are subject to site design review, shall be configured
to provide an alley or interior parking court, as shown in Figure
16.85.050(B). When new public streets are created on larger sites,
blocks (areas bound by public street right-of-way) shall have a
length not exceeding 200 feet, and a depth not exceeding 200 feet.
2. Pedestrian pathways shall be provided from the street right-of-
way to interior parking courts between buildings, as necessary to
ensure reasonably safe, direct, and convenient access to building
entrances and off-street parking.
3. Exceptions to the alley or interior parking court standard may be
approved, and longer block lengths or depths allowed, when the
proposed development provides a mid-block pedestrian pathway.
The mid-block pedestrian pathway must connect across the site to
both street frontages, be at least 10 feet in width, and be lit with
pedestrian-scale lighting.

  Technical Memorandum #5 Page 48 of 49

C. Variances. Variances will be made in accordance with
Chapter 19.520 FMC. The standard may be varied to address
topographic or other physical constraints, in accordance with the
provisions for Class B or C variances in Chapter 19.520 FMC.
FMC 19.65.060 Building Height
Height Step Down – Interested
developers for some of the
opportunity sites identified in TM 4
suggested that this requirement may
be hard to meet. The City is
considering updates to offer flexibility
to these standards.
B. Height Step Down. In the following situations, the base height is
reduced, or stepped down, to create a transition to areas with
lower building heights or to reduce the massing of the building as
seen from the street:
1. Adjacent to Residential Zone. The following step-down height
limits apply within 25 feet of sites zoned residential. Sites with
property lines that abut residential zones for less than a five-foot
length are exempt from these standards:
a. On the portion of the site within 25 feet of a site zoned R, R-
7.5, R-10, or VSF, the step-down height limit is 35 feet. See
Figure 19.65.060(B).
b. On the portion of the site within 25 feet of a site zoned
R/MF, VA, VTH, VO, VC, VMU, the step-down height limit is 45
feet. See Figure 19.65.060(B).
2. Across a Local Street or Alley from a Residential Zone. On the
portion of the site within 15 feet of a lot line that is across a local
street or alley, as identified in the Fairview Transportation System
Plan (TSP), from any of the zones listed in subsection (B)(1) of this
section, the step-down height limit is 45 feet.
3. Adjacent to Any Street. If a project is approved for a height bonus
pursuant to FMC 19.65.070, then step-down height limit applies to
a portion of the site as follows:
a. For sites eligible for a height bonus of 10 feet, allowing an
overall height of 55 feet, the step-down height limit is 45 feet
on the portion of the site within five feet of any street lot line.
See Figure 19.65.060(B).
b. For sites eligible for a height bonus of 20 feet, allowing an
overall height of 65 feet, the step-down height limit is 45 feet
on the portion of the site within 15 feet of any street lot line.
Additionally, any rooftop area within 15 feet of the street lot
line must be usable outdoor space or developed as an eco-
roof. See Figure 19.65.060(B).
The City has indicated that developers have faced
challenges meeting the step down requirements
when applying height bonuses. The city may
consider exceptions for height step downs if specific
bonuses are provided (e.g., affordable housing).
Alternatively, to simplify the requirement or enable
flexibility, the city may consider providing the option
of a step down calculated as a percentage of the
total height or frontage length, which may help
ensure the stepdown is proportional to the scale of
the building. For example: “The step-down height
limit is 45 feet or 75% of the building height,
whichever is less.”

VII. APPENDICES
The appendices listed below include full-size versions of the graphics included in this memorandum and the evaluation
matrix:
◼ Appendix A: Evaluation Summary
◼ Appendix B: Near-Term Solutions
◼ Appendix C: Long-Term Solutions
◼ Appendix D: Linear Design Plans