BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-067

Proclaiming August 1st to 7th, 2024 as World Breastfeeding Week and August 25th  to August
31st, 2024 as Black Breastfeeding Week in Multnomah County, Oregon.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

1. August is National Breastfeeding Month, an initiative designed to celebrate, support, and
promote awareness of the benefits of breastfeeding.

2. The World Breastfeeding Week campaign aims to inform, anchor, engage and galvanize
action on breastfeeding and related issues.

3. Black Breastfeeding Week is an initiative intended to celebrate and encourage Black
women to breastfeed.

4. Racial inequities in breastfeeding rates persist and are the result of barriers in healthcare,
employment, and community settings as well as racial and ethnic discrimination.

5. Multnomah County recognizes the physical and mental benefits of breastfeeding for both
babies and birthing parents, as well as the importance of reducing racial inequities in healthcare
and birth outcomes for babies.

6. Multnomah County recognizes the importance of having employer focused breastfeeding,
as employers that provide workplace lactation support experience an impressive return on
investment, including lower health care costs, absenteeism, and turnover rates,  and improved
morale, job satisfaction, and productivity, and breastfeeding is economical, providing its benefits
at little or no cost and providing a safe, renewable food source, especially critical during natural
disaster and emergency situations.

7. Multnomah County is committed to establishing a Breastfeeding Medicine Healing and
Training Center dedicated to improving the health outcomes and infant mortality rates of
mother/baby dyads of color by providing access to culturally supported evidenced based
Lactation Consultant Provider services for Women of Color in Oregon.

8. Promoting diversity in the lactation field and applauding the work of community
breastfeeding champions is very important, and Black Breastfeeding Week provides the
opportunity to encourage government agencies, community-based organizations, and academic
institutions to share this message and work together to engage in equity efforts in their
communities.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
August 1st to 7th, 2024 as World Breastfeeding Week and August 25th to August 31st as Black
Breastfeeding Week in Multnomah County, Oregon, in recognition and celebration of the
importance of Breastfeeding in our community.
ADOPTED this 15th day of August, 2024.
SUBMITTED BY: Rachael Banks, Health Department Director
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney

BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By: