BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO.  2022-020
Adopting the Recommended Preferred Alternative for Inclusion in the Supplemental Draft
Environmental Impact Statement of the Earthquake Ready Burnside Bridge Project.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Multnomah County owns and maintains the Burnside Bridge, a 96-year-old structure
that is nearing the end of its service life and was not designed to withstand a major
earthquake.
b. In March 1996, Metro designated Burnside Street a primary “East-West emergency
transportation route” thereby establishing the Burnside corridor as a regional “lifeline”
route.
c. In April 2015, Multnomah County adopted the Willamette River Bridges Capital
Improvement Plan, whereby making the existing Burnside Bridge seismically resilient,
either through a retrofit or full replacement, was listed as the highest priority project in
the 2015-2034 timeframe.
d. A seismically resilient Burnside Bridge will support the region’s ability to provide rapid
and reliable emergency response, rescue, and evacuation after a major earthquake,
as well as enable post-earthquake economic recovery.
e. In September 2016, Multnomah County initiated a Burnside Bridge Seismic
Feasibility Study whose purpose was to create a range of options for a seismically
resilient Burnside Bridge that will remain fully operational and accessible for vehicles
and other modes of transportation immediately following a major Cascadia
Subduction Zone earthquake. The outcomes of this study were adopted by the Board
on November 1, 2018.
f. In October 2018, Multnomah County convened a Policy Group made up of elected
and appointed representatives of jurisdictions and agencies with an interest in the
Burnside Bridge to make recommendations at project milestones during the
Environmental Review Phase.
g. The Policy Group has met five times during the Environmental Review Phase to
review the project progress and to formalize their recommendation for a Preferred
Alternative for inclusion into the publication of the draft Environmental Impact
Statement.
h. The Policy Group currently consists of:
● Co-chair, Multnomah County Chair Deborah Kafoury
● Co-chair, Multnomah County Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson
● Steve Witter, TriMet
● Chris Warner, Portland Bureau of Transportation Director
● Rian Windsheimer, Oregon Department of Transportation (Region 1)
● Phil Ditzler, Federal Highway Administration (Oregon)
● Justin Douglas, Prosper Portland
● Councilor Mary Nolan, Metro
● Councilor Sue Piazza, City of Gresham
● Oregon State Senator Kathleen Taylor (District 21)
● Oregon State Representative Barbara Smith Warner (District 45)
● U.S. Senator Jeff Merkely’s Office
● U.S. Senator Ron Wyden’s Office
● U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer’s Office
● U.S. Representative Suzanne Bonamici’s Office
i. In October 2018, a Communit y Task Force of 21 cit izens was formed as part of the
Environmental Review Phase. The Community Task Force has since met twenty -nine
times.
j. In fall of 2020, the Community Task Force, Policy Group and Board  of County
Commissioners recommended a Preferred Alternative to be included in the publication
of the draft Environmental Impact Statement. The recommended Preferred Alternative
consists of the Long Span Alternative and the closure of the bridge to traffic  during the
construction phase. The alternatives not selected include the Enhanced Seismic
Retrofit, the Short Span Replacement Alternative, and the Couch Extension
Replacement Alternative. The installation of a temporary movable bridge during the
construction phase was not selected. A Draft Environmental Impact Statement was
published Feb 5, 2021 for public review and comment, documenting the benefits and
impacts of the range of alternatives considered.
k. In spring of 2021, the two Board of County Commissi oners who Co -Chair the project
Policy Group, Chair Deborah Kafoury and Commissioner Jessica Vega Pederson,
requested that the project team explore ways to bring the overall cost of the project down
to better ensure a new bridge gets funded and built. Any proposed changes were to be
included in the publication of a Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement for
public review and comment.
l. On January 24th, 2022, the Community Task Force recommended a range of cost saving
measures to be applied to the L ong Span Alternative, resulting in an update to the
recommended Preferred Alternative. The range of cost saving measures included the
selection of a conventional girder style structure type for the west approach span over
Tom McCall Waterfront Park, a bascule style structure type for the movable span in the
river, and the narrowing of the overall bridge width resulting in the reduction of one
vehicular lane of traffic.
m. On March 3rd, 2022, the Policy Group approved the Community Task Force’s
recommendation for the refinements to the recommended Preferred Alternative. The
Policy Group forwarded these recommendations to the Multnomah County Board of
Commissioners for approval.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The work of the Community Task Force is appreciated. The Board thanks them for
their service to the public.
2. The work of the Policy Group is appreciated. The Board thanks them for their service
to the public.
3. To include the recommended Preferred Alternative in the publication of the
Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact Statement.
4. To direct staff in the Department of Community Services to work with the Federal
Highway Administratio n to publish the Supplemental Draft Environmental Impact
Statement as soon as is practicable.
ADOPTED this 17th day of March, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY:  Jamie Waltz, Director, Department of Community Services