BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2022-081
Approving a Lease of the Property Located at 830 N Hayden Meadows Drive Portland, OR 97217 for the
JOHS Warehouse space.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. A lease of premises within the property located at 830 N Hayden Meadows Dri ve Portland, OR
97217 for the JOHS Warehouse (“Lease”), that will provide necessary warehouse space for
storage of basic survival outreach supplies, severe weather gear, facilities equipment for
alt
ernative and traditional shelter spaces, and other items acquired by JOHS.
b. Entering this agreement to lease a warehouse located at 830 N Hayden Meadows Drive (“JOHS
Warehouse”) will add a warehouse property to the JOHS portfolio. Entering this agreement will
furth
er the goals of the JOHS Safety on the Streets  by optimizing centralized access to basic
survival and severe weather outreach supplies for providers, agencies, and community groups
who distribute these items to people experiencing unsheltered homelessness. The warehouse
lea
se also furthers the goals of the Alternative Shelter Program by allowing for centralized storage
of pallet shelters, hygiene units, and other mobile infrastructure for the ongoing shifting landscape
of alternative shelter, enabling them to be deployed as appropriate across the County.
c. App
roval of the Lease in substantial conformance with the proposed terms is in the best interests
of Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. The County Chair is authorized to execute a lease substantially in the conformance with the
Lease, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
2. The County Chair is authorized to execute renewals of the Lease and execute amendments to
the Lease without further Board action.
ADOPTED this 15th day of September, 2022.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MA DKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Shannon Singleton, Interim Direction, JOHS
LEASE AGREEMENT
b
y and between
H
ayden Meadows, a Joint Venture
(“Landlord”)
a
nd
M
ultnomah County, an Oregon political subdivision
(“Tenant”)
A
ugust 12, 2022
EXHIBIT 1
DRAFT

i – TABLE OF CONTENTS
LEASE AGREEMENT
SECTION 1. DEMISE AND RENT............................................................................................. 1
SECTION 2. USE ......................................................................................................................... 2
SECTION 3. TENANT’S ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES;
DELIVERY OF POSSESSION .............................................................................. 4
SECTION 4. OPERATING EXPENSES, TAXES ...................................................................... 5
SECTION 5. PAYMENT OF TAXES AND OPERATING EXPENSES ................................... 6
SECTION 6. SECURITY DEPOSIT AND REPORTING .......................................................... 9
SECTION 7. SUBORDINATION, NOTICE TO SUPERIOR LESSORS AND
MORTGAGEES ..................................................................................................... 9

SECTION 8. QUIET ENJOYMENT.......................................................................................... 11
SECTION 9. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING ................................................................. 11
SECTION 10. INSURANCE ........................................................................................................ 12
SECTION 11. RULES AND REGULATIONS ........................................................................... 13
SECTION 12. ALTERATIONS ................................................................................................... 13
SECTION 13. LANDLORD’S AND TENANT’S PROPERTY ................................................. 15
SECTION 14. SERVICES AND UTILITIES .............................................................................. 15
SECTION 15. ACCESS AND NAME ......................................................................................... 18
SECTION 16. NOTICE OF OCCURRENCES ............................................................................ 18
SECTION 17. NONLIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION ................................................... 18
SECTION 18. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION .......................................................................... 19
SECTION 19. SURRENDER AND HOLDING OVER .............................................................. 20
SECTION 20. EVENTS OF DEFAULT ...................................................................................... 21
SECTION 21. REMEDIES UPON DEFAULT ........................................................................... 23
SECTION 22. SERVICES IN THE EVENT OF DEFAULT ...................................................... 24
SECTION 23. NO WAIVERS OF PERFORMANCE ................................................................. 24

ii – TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 24. CURING TENANT’S DEFAULTS ..................................................................... 24
SECTION 25. BROKER .............................................................................................................. 25
SECTION 26. NOTICES .............................................................................................................. 25
SECTION 27. ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES .............................................................................. 25
SECTION 28. MEMORANDUM OF LEASE ............................................................................. 26
SECTION 29. RELOCATION OF PREMISES ........................................................................... 26
SECTION 30. ADJUSTMENT OF COMMENCEMENT AND EXPIRATION DATES .......... 26
SECTION 31. MISCELLANEOUS ............................................................................................. 26

EXHIBIT A: The Building
EXHIBIT B: The Center
EXHIBIT C: Floor Plan of Demised Premises
EXHIBIT D: Work Agreement
EXHIBIT E: Legal Description for Land
EXHIBIT F: Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
EXHIBIT G: Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement
EXHIBIT H: Rules and Regulations
EXHIBIT I: Statement of Tenant in Re: Lease
EXHIBIT J: Option Addendum

1 – BASIC LEASE INFORMATION
DELTA PARK CENTER
LEASE AGREEMENT

Basic Lease Information
The following Basic Lease Information is hereby incorporated into and made a part of the
Lease between Landlord and Tenant to which it is attached.  Each reference in the Lease to any of
the Basic Lease Information shall mean the respective information set forth below and such
information shall be deemed incorporated as a part of the terms provided under the particular Lease
Section pertaining to such information.  In the event of any conflict between any Basic Lease
Information and the Lease, the former shall control.
1. Date of Lease: August ___, 2022.
2. Building:   Exhibit A.
3. Center:  Delta Park Center as shown on Exhibit B.
4. Landlord:  Hayden Meadows, a Joint Venture, an Oregon general partnership.
5. Landlord’s Address for Giving of Notices and Payment of Rent:
Hayden Meadows, a Joint Venture
c/o TMT Development Co., LLC
919 SW Taylor Street, Suite 700
Portland, Oregon 97205
6. Tenant:  Multnomah County, an Oregon political subdivision
7. Tenant’s Address for Giving of Notices:
Multnomah County
Facilities and Property Management
401 N. Dixon Street
Portland, Oregon 97227
Attn: Scott Churchill

8. Premises:  830 N Hayden Meadows Dr., Portland, OR 97217 consisting of 19,000
rentable square feet (RSF”) as shown on Exhibit C.
9. Use of Premises: Tenant shall use the Premises only for storage under the Trade
Name Multnomah County, Joint Office of Homeless Services or JOHS and for no other purpose.
10.  Prepayment of Rent : Tenant shall pay to Landlord within 10 days after  Lease
execution an amount equal to the Base Rent for the first  full month of the Lease Term in which
Base Rent is due ($12,666.67) (“Prepaid Rent”) and such Prepaid Rent shall be applied to the first
month of the Lease Term. Tenant shall also pay to Landlord within 10 days after Lease execution

2 – BASIC LEASE INFORMATION
Tenant’s approximate pro rata share of Tax, Insurance, and Operating Expenses for the first month
in which Taxes, Insurance, and Operating Expenses are due ($7,003.27).
11. Commencement Date: Landlord shall deliver possession of the Premises to Tenant
on October 1, 2022, with Landlord’s Work substantially complete  and otherwise  in “AS-IS”
condition (“Commencement Date”).
12. Expiration Date : The final day of the thirty -ninth (39th) full calendar month
following the Commencement Date.
13. Base Rent: Commencing on the Commencement Date, Base Rent is calculated at
the initial rate of $8.00 per rentable square foot per year, then escalated 3 % annually beginning
month 13 and is as follows:
Months Annual Rate/RSF Monthly Base Rent
1-3 $0.00 $0.00
4-12 $8.00 $12,666.67*
13-24 $8.24 $13,046.67
25-36 $8.49 $13,438.81
37-39 $8.74 $13,841.21

  *Any first partial month is charged a prorated potion of this amount.

14. Tenant’s Percentage of Taxes , Insurance and Operating Expenses :
Commencing on the Commencement Date and throughout the lease Term, Tenant shall pay as
Additional Rent its pro rata shar e of Taxes, Insurance, and Operating Expenses: 100% of Taxes
and Insurance allocated to  the Building; 2.24% of Operating Expenses allocated to the Center
pursuant to Section 5.2.1 below; and 100% of Operating Expenses allocated to the Building
pursuant to Section 5.2.1 below.  The current estimate of Tenant’s Additional Rent charge is
$4.42/RSF.
15. Parking: Tenant will be guaranteed up to two (2) parking spaces specially reserved
for Tenant parking directly in front of the Premises.  Tenant may park in other
unmarked/unreserved parking spaces of the Building parking lot on a nonexclusive basis.
16. Security: Tenant will be permitted to install key card access to the Premises . See
also Section 14.7 of the Lease.
17. Utilities: Tenant shall pay for all utilities for the Premises, which shall be separately
metered. See also Section 14.2 of the Lease.
18. Assignment and Subletting: See Section 9 of the Lease.
19. Brokers: Nicole John and Nicholas Diamond of Capacity Commercial Group, LLC
(representing Landlord) and Joy Heinecke of Multnomah County (representing Tenant).  Landlord
will pay a brokerage commission to Landlord’s  broker pursuant to separate agreement.  No
commission is payable for any extension or renewal term.

3 – BASIC LEASE INFORMATION
20. Landlord’s Work: As described in Exhibit D to the Lease.
21. Tenant Improvement: As described in Exhibit D to the Lease.
22. Lease Extension Option:  Provided Tenant is not in default, beyond any applicable
cure period, during the Lease Term, Tenant shall have one (1) successive option to extend the term
for one (1) year, as more specifically described in Exhibit J.

LANDLORD:

Hayden Meadows, a Joint Venture
an Oregon general partnership

By: Meadows Land Partnership, an Oregon
general partnership, its Managing Partner

By: D Park Corporation, an Oregon
corporation, its Managing Partner

 By: ________________________________
        Vanessa Sturgeon, President & CEO

Date:

Email: vanessa@tmtdevelopment.com

TENANT:

Multnomah County

By:
    Deborah Kafoury, Chair

Date:

Email: scott.churchill@multco.us

1 – LEASE AGREEMENT
DELTA PARK CENTER
LEASE AGREEMENT

Terms and Conditions
SECTION 1. DEMISE AND RENT
1.1 Demise.  Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby leases from
Landlord, upon and subject to the terms, covenants, provisions and conditions of this Lease
Agreement (herein called the “Lease”), the premises described in Section  1.2 in the building
(herein called the “Building”) located in the Center  on the parcel of real property  described on
Exhibit E attached hereto and incorporated herein (the “Land”).
1.2 Premises.  The Premises (herein called “Premises”) leased to Tenant are described
in the Basic Lease Information and are outlined on the floor plan(s) attached hereto as Exhibit  C
and incorporated herein by this reference.  The rentable area of the Premises and Building will be
determined in accordance with the standard used for the Center from time to time.  Landlord may
perform a field check after Landlord delivers possession of the Premises to Tenant to determine
the as-built rentable area of the Premises, and will adjust the Base Rent, Tenant’s Percentage, the
Allowance (if any) and all other figures in this Lease that are calculated on a square footage basis
to conform to the as-built determination.
1.3 Commencement and Expiration Dates .  The term of this Lease (herein called
“Lease Term”) shall commence on the Commencement Date and end on the Expiration Date
specified in the Basic Lease Information (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 30) unless
sooner terminated as herein provided.  After the Commencement Date has occurred, the parties
shall execute a supplemental memorandum stating the actual Commencement Date.
1.4 Rent.  The rents shall be and consist of Base Rent (herein called “Base Rent”) and
Additional Rent (herein called “Additional Rent”).  For purposes of this Lease Agreement, Base
Rent and Additional Rent are re ferred to collectively as “Rent.”  Base Rent shall be the amount
indicated in the Basic Lease Information.  From and after the Rent Commencement Date, Base
Rent shall be payable in monthly installments in advance  of or on the first day of each and every
calendar month during the term of this Lease.  Additional Rent shall consist of all other sums of
money as shall become due from and payable by Tenant to Landlord hereunder.  All Rent shall be
paid in lawful money of the United States of America to Landlord at its office or such other place,
as Landlord shall designate by notice to Tenant.  Tenant shall pay the Base Rent and Additional
Rent promptly when due without notice or demand therefor and without any abatement, deduction
or setoff for any reaso n whatsoever, except as expressly provided in this Lease.  Base Rent and
Tenant’s prorata share of Taxes and Operating Expenses for the first month due shall be paid on
execution of this Lease.  If the Rent Commencement Date occurs on a day other than the first day
of a calendar month, or the Expiration Date occurs on a day other than the last day of a calendar
month, the Base Rent for that partial calendar month shall be prorated on a daily basis.
1.5 Late Charge.  Tenant recognizes that late payment of any Rent from Tenant to
Landlord will result in administrative expense to Landlord, the extent of which additional expense

2 – LEASE AGREEMENT
is extremely difficult and economically impractical to ascertain.  Tenant therefore agrees that if
Rent from Tenant to Landlord remains unpaid ten (10) days after said amount is due, the amount
of such unpaid Rent shall be increased by a late charge to be paid to Landlord by Tenant in an
amount equal to five percent (5%) of the amount of the delinquent Rent or other payment.  Tenant
agrees that such amount is a reasonable estimate of the loss and expense to be suffered by Landlord
as a result of such late payment by Tenant and may be charged by Landlord to defray such loss
and expense.  The provisions of this Section in no way relieve Tenant of the obligation to pay Rent
on or before the date on which it is due, nor do the terms of this Section in any way affect
Landlord’s remedies pursuant to Section 21 of this Lease in the event Rent is past due.
1.6 Confidentiality.  Tenant acknowledges that Landlord is providing these lease
terms and other accommodations to Tenant in recognition of Tenant’s reputation and established
business history.  Tenant shall keep the Rent and other terms of this Lease confidential from other
current and prospective occupants of the Center and any other projects owned by Landlord except
to the extent disclosure is reasonably necessary in the internal management of Tenant’s business
or required by law or order by an authority having jurisdiction over the matter.
SECTION 2. USE
2.1 Generally.
2.1.1 Use of Premises.  Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant shall
use and occupy the Premises continuously during the term of this Lease.  The Premises shall be
continuously used for the use specified in the Basic Lease Information and for no other purpose.
2.1.2 Restricted Uses.  Without implying any use right of Tenant other than the
use described in Section  9 of the Basic Lease Information, in no event shall Tenant use the
Premises for any use listed on Exhibit F.
2.1.3 Legal Requirements.  If any governmental license or permit, other than a
Certificate of Occupancy, shall be required for the proper and lawful conduct of Tenant’s business
in the Premises or any part thereof, Tenant, at its expense, shall duly procure and the reafter
maintain such license or permit and submit the same to Landlord for inspection.  Tenant shall at
all times comply with the terms and conditions of each such license or permit.  Tenant shall not do
or permit anything to be done in or about the Premises which will in any way obstruct or interfere
with the rights of other tenants or occupants of the Building and/or Center or injure or annoy them,
nor use or allow the Premises to be used for any improper, immoral, unlawful or objectionable
purpose, nor shall Tenant cause or maintain or permit any nuisance in, on, or about the Premises.
Tenant shall not commit or allow the commission of any waste in, on, or about the Premises.
Tenant shall not use the Premises or permit anything to be done in or  about the Premises which
will in any way conflict with any Legal Requirements.  Tenant shall not do or permit anything to
be done on or about the Premises or bring or keep anything therein which will in any way increase
the rate of any insurance upon t he Building and/or Center in which the Premises are situated or
any of its contents or cause a cancellation of said insurance or otherwise affect said insurance in
any manner.  Tenant shall, at its sole cost and expense, promptly comply with all Legal
Requirements and with the requirements of any board of fire underwriters or other similar body
now or hereafter constituted relating to or affecting the condition, use, or occupancy of the

3 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Premises, excluding structural changes not related to or affected by: (i) alterations or
improvements made by or for Tenant; or (ii)  Tenant’s acts.  The judgment of any court of
competent jurisdiction or the admission of Tenant in an action against Tenant, whether Landlord
be a party thereto or not, that Tenant has so violated any such Legal Requirements, shall be
conclusive of such violation as between Landlord and Tenant.  Tenant shall use its best efforts to
prevent any violation of applicable Legal Requirements by its partners, directors, officers, agents
and employees.
2.1.4 Unfair Practices.  Without limiting the provisions of this Section 2, Tenant
shall not engage in any of the following practices or conduct: (i)  the manufacture or sale of
counterfeit mark(s), (ii)  the sale of goods falsely using the name of anothe r manufacturer or
producer, (iii) unfair or deceptive business practices, or (iv) unfair competition.
2.2 ADA Law Compliance.  Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that the provisions of
the Americans with Disabilities Act (the “ADA”) allow allocation of responsibility for compliance
with the terms and conditions of the ADA in the Lease.  Landlord and Tenant agree that the
responsibility for compliance with the ADA shall be allocated as set forth in this Section.  Tenant
shall be responsible for compliance with the applicable provisions of the ADA with respect to all
improvements within the Premises.  Landlord shall be responsible for compliance with the
provisions of title III of the ADA with respect to the exterior of the Building and exterior areas of
the Center including parking areas, sidewalks and walkways, and the like, together with all
common areas of the Center.  Neither Landlord nor Tenant shall be obligated to supervise, monitor,
or otherwise review the compliance activities of the other.  Tenant acknowledges that the expense
of Landlord’s fulfillment of its ADA obligations is an element of Operating Expenses as such term
is defined in the Lease.  Any such ADA expense for capital improvements shall be amortized over
the useful life of the same for purposes of Operating Expenses in the same manner as provided in
the Lease for capital improvements.  References in this Lease to Legal Requirements shall be
deemed to refer to the ADA among other laws.
2.3 Environmental Law Compliance .  For purposes of this Section the term
“Hazardous Substances” shall mean and include all hazardous and toxic substances, waste or
materials, any pollutant or contaminant, including, without limitation, PCBs, asbestos, asbestos -
containing material, and raw materials that are included under or regulated by any Environmental
Laws.  For purposes of this Lease the term “Environmental Laws” shall mean and include all
federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, regulations and rules presently in force or hereafter
enacted relating to environmental quality, contamination, and clean-up of Hazardous Substances,
including, without limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. §6091 et seq., as amended by the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, 42 U.S.C.
§6091 et seq., as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, and state
superlien and environmental clean-up statutes and all rules and regulations presently or hereafter
promulgated under said statutes as amended.  References in this Lease to Legal Requirements shall
be deemed to refer to Environmental Laws among other laws.  Tenant acknowledges that the
expense of compliance with Environmental Laws is an element of Operating Expenses except to
the extent that any such expense resulted from the fault of the Landlord.  Landlord shall use
reasonable efforts to recover any expense of compliance with Environmental Laws from any third
party who is liable for the same and credit any such recovery against Operating Expenses.  If any

4 – LEASE AGREEMENT
lender or governmental agency shall ever require testing to ascertain whether or not there has been
any release of Hazardous Substances within the Pr emises, then the reasonable costs thereof shall
be reimbursed by Tenant to Landlord upon demand as additional charges.  In addition, Tenant shall
execute affidavits, representations and the like from time to time at Landlord’s request concerning
Tenant’s best knowledge and belief regarding the presence of Hazardous Substances on the
Premises.  In all events, Tenant shall indemnify Landlord in the manner elsewhere provided in this
Lease from any release of Hazardous Substances on the Premises occurring while Tenant is in
possession, or elsewhere if caused by Tenant or persons acting under Tenant.  The within
covenants shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of the Lease term.
2.4 Indemnity Regarding Legal Violations.  Subject to the limitations and conditions
of the Oregon Constitution and the Oregon Tort  Claims Act (ORS 30.260 to 30.300), including
(without limitation) specifically subject to and within the financial limits and conditions set forth
at ORS 30.272 for local public bodies and at ORS 30.273 for public bodies, Tenant shall indemnify
and hold harmless Landlord and all Superior Lessors and/or Superior Mortgagees and its and their
respective partners, directors, officers, agents and employees for, regarding, from and against any
and all claims arising from or in  connection with the violation of Legal Requirements including
but not limited to the ADA or Environmental Laws, occurring in, at or about the Center due to the
acts or omissions of Tenant or its partners, directors, officers, agents and employees; together with
all costs, expenses and liabilities incurred or in connection with each such claim, action,
proceeding or appeal, including, without limitation, all attorneys’ fees and expenses.
SECTION 3. TENANT’S ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES;
DELIVERY OF POSSESSION
Landlord will deliver possession of the Premises , with Landlord’s Work s ubstantially
complete and otherwise in “AS IS” condition. By taking possession of the Premises, Tenant
accepts the Premises as being in the condition in which Landlord is obligated to deliver them and
otherwise in good order, condition and repair.  Tenant shall, at all times during the term hereof at
Tenant’s sole cost and expense, keep the Premises in good order, condition and repair including :
Premises floors, walls, ceiling, paint, cabinetry and casework; plumbing lines serving the Premises
to the point of connection with the Building ’s main line ; interior utility system fixtures and
equipment exclusively serving the Premises; all fire/life/safety equipment and systems exclusively
serving the Premises; Premises storefront, signage, and all utilities; all of Tenant’s Property; any
and all Tenant improvements and alterations  to the Premises; heating, ventilation and air
conditioning equipment exclusively serving the Premises; and Premises windows, glass and doors.
Tenant shall also provide quarterly maintenance to the HVAC system exclusively serving the
Premises (if any) and provide reports  to Landlord on a quarterly basis.  Tenant shall supply all
janitorial and maintenance service required to maintain the Premises in a first  class condition,
including (without limitation) daily janitorial service, periodic carpet shampooing and tile
cleaning, interior and exterior window cleaning, trash removal and light bulb, tube and ballast
replacements.  The contractors engaged to perform janitorial and maintenance service shall carry
public liability insurance and workers compensation insurance on their employees.  Tenant shall
repair and restore, or at Landlord’s election reimburse Landlord’s cost to repair and restore, any
damage to other elements of the Building or the Center caused by Tenant.  Upon the expiration or
sooner termination of the lease term, except as Landlord demands otherwise pursuant to Section
12.1 or Section 13.1, Tenant shall surrender to Landlord the Premises and all repairs, changes,

5 – LEASE AGREEMENT
alterations, additions, and improvements there to (except Tenant’s Property as defined in Section
13.2) in the same condition as when received, or when first installed subject to ordinary wear and
tear. Landlord shall have no obligation to alter, remove, improve, repair, decorate, or paint the
Premises or any part thereof.  No representations respecting the condition of the Premises , the
Building or the Center have been made by Landlord to Tenant, except as set forth in this Lease.
SECTION 4. OPERATING EXPENSES, TAXES
4.1 Operating Expenses . For the purposes of t his Lease, the term “Operating
Expenses” shall mean all expenses paid or incurred by Landlord (or on Landlord’s behalf) as
reasonably determined by Landlord to be necessary or appropriate for the efficient operation,
maintenance and repair of the Land and/or Building, including the common areas of the Building
and Center, including without limitation:  (i)  salaries, wages, employer’s social security taxes,
unemployment taxes or insurance and other taxes which are levied on wages and salaries, medical,
surgical, union and general welfare benefits (including, without limitation, disability and group
life insurance) and pension payments of employees of Landlord engaged in the repair, operation
and maintenance of the Land, Building and/or Center; (ii)  payroll taxes, workers’ compensation
insurance, uniforms and related expenses for employees; (iii) the cost of all charges for gas, steam,
electricity, heat, ventilation, air conditioning, water and other utilities furnished to the common
areas of the Bui lding and/or Center (or, if any of these utilities provided to Premises is not
separately paid by Tenant, then all costs of such utility being furnished to the Building as a whole),
together with any taxes on such utilities; (iv) the cost of painting of public areas; (v) the cost of all
charges of insurance, including rent loss insurance, casualty, liability, fire with extended coverage
endorsement and fidelity insurance, with regard to the Land, Building and/or Center and the
maintenance and/or operatio n thereof; (vi)  the cost or rental of all supplies, including without
limitation, cleaning supplies, light bulbs, tubes and ballasts, materials and equipment, and sales
and other taxes thereon; (vii) the cost of hand tools and other movable equipment used in the repair,
maintenance or operation of the Building and/or Center amortized over the useful life of such hand
tools and movable equipment (as reasonably estimated by Landlord); (viii) the cost of all charges
for window and other cleaning and janit orial and security services; (ix)  charges of independent
contractors performing repairs or services to the Land, Building and/or Center including water
treatment, vermin extermination, facade maintenance, roof maintenance, life safety and fire alarm
equipment and other costs for necessary services; (x) non capital repairs, replacements and general
maintenance; (xi)  remodeling of the public and common areas of the Building and/or Center
including, without limitation, repainting, replacement and repair o f furnishings, fixtures,
accessories, carpeting or other floor covering, wall and window coverings in the public and
common areas, the cost of which shall be amortized (with interest at the rate of nine percent (9%)
per annum on the unamortized balance)  over the useful life of the improvements as reasonably
estimated by Landlord; (xii) alterations and improvements to the Building and/or Center made by
reason of the laws and requirements of any public authorities or the requirements of insurance
bodies; (xiii) management fees paid to a third party, or, if no managing agent is employed by
Landlord, Landlord shall be entitled to charge a management fee which is not in excess of four
percent (4%) of base rent and such fee shall be included in the Operating Expenses; (xiv) the cost
of any capital improvements or repairs to the Building, Center and/or of any machinery or
equipment installed in the Building and/or Center amortized (with interest at the rate of nine
percent (9%) per annum on the unamortized balance) over the useful life of the improvement,
machinery and/or equipment as reasonably estimated by Landlord; (xv) legal, accounting and other

6 – LEASE AGREEMENT
professional fees incurred in connection with operation, maintenance and management of the
Land, Buildi ng and/or Center; (xvi)  the cost of providing elevator service and trash removal;
(xvii) the cost of landscape and parking area maintenance and repair; and (xviii) all other charges
properly allocable to the operation, repair and maintenance of the Building and/or Center.
4.2 Exclusions from Operating Expenses .  Operating Expenses shall not include:
(i) depreciation or amortization (except as provided above in Section 4.1); (ii)  interest on and
amortization of debts (except as provided above in Section 4.1); (iii)  leasehold improvement s
made for new tenants of the Center ; (iv)  leasing commissions, attorneys’ fees, costs and
disbursements and other expenses (including advertising) incurred in connection with leasing,
renovating, or improving space for tenants or other occupants or prospective tenants or occupants
of the Center ; (v)  refinancing costs; (vi)  the cost of any work or services performed for any
tenant(s) of the Center (including Tenant), whether at the expense of Landlord or such tenant(s),
to the extent that such work or services is in excess of the work or services which Landlord, at its
expense, is required to furnish to Tenant under this Lease with Tenant; (vii) damages recoverable
by any tenant due to violation by Landlord of any of the terms and conditions of this Lease or any
other lease relating to the Center; and (viii) repairs occasioned by fire, windstorm or other casualty,
to the extent such repairs are paid for by insurance proceeds.
4.3 Taxes.  The term “Taxes” shall include (i) all real property taxes and assessments
and personal property taxes, charges, rates, duties and assessments rated, levied or imposed by any
governmental authority with respect to the Land, the Building and any improvements, fixtures and
equipment located therein or thereon, and with respect to all other property of Landlord, real or
personal, located in or on the Land or the Building and used in connection with the operation of
the Building; (ii) any tax in lieu of a real property tax; (iii) any tax or excise levied or assessed by
any governmental authority on the rentals payable under this Lease or rentals accruing from the
use of the Land or the Building; provided that thi s shall not include federal or state, corporate or
personal income taxes; (iv)  any tax or excise imposed or assessed against Landlord which is
measured or based in whole or in part on the capital employed by Landlord to improve the Land
and construct the Building; and (v) any city, county or state business property management license
fee.
Tenant, at its sole cost and expense, may apply for, and is solely responsible for applying
for, exemption from Real Property Taxes and personal property taxes as provided by law. At
Tenant’s request, Landlord will provide information reasonably required for Tenant to apply for
such exemption.  Any exemption granted as a result of any such application shall accrue for the
sole benefit of Tenant, such that the total compensation paid by Tenant under this Lease has been
established to reflect the savings of below market rent resulting from the exemption from
taxation.
SECTION 5. PAYMENT OF TAXES AND OPERATING EXPENSES
5.1 Operating Year.  As used in this Section 5, the term “Operating Year” shall mean
each calendar year of the Lease Term and in the event this Lease begins or ends on any date other
than the first day of the calendar year, the calculations, costs and payments referred to herein shall
be prorated as provided in Section 31.11.

7 – LEASE AGREEMENT
5.2 Tenant’s Pro Rata Share .  Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant
shall pay, as Additional Rent, its pro rata share of the Taxes  and Operating Expenses.  Tenant’s
pro rata share of the Taxes and Operating Expenses of the Building and Center for each Operating
Year shall be equal to the actual Taxes and Operating Expenses for each Operating Year multiplied
by Tenant’s Percentage (as specified in the Basic Lease Information, and as adjusted as provided
herein) unless Landlord has a reasonable basis to use a different share for any particular cost (such
as to reflect the tax exempt status of a lessee or separate metering).  The term “Tenant’s
Percentage” shall mean a percentage, the numerator of which is the number of rentable square feet
in the Premises and the denominator of which is the total number of rentable square feet of the
commercial portion of the Building  or the Center, as applicable , whether or not such space is
actually rented.  The Tenant’s Percentage (as specified in the Basi c Lease Information, and
adjusted as provided herein) shall be changed from time to time to reflect any change in the total
rentable square footage in the commercial portion of the Building  or Center.  During the periods
when the Building  or Center is not fully occupied, Landlord shall reasonably adjust Operating
Expenses to reflect the costs that would normally have been incurred had the Building or Center
(as applicable) been fully occupied for the entire period and the Building or Center had been fully
assessed for property tax purposes.  The Building or Center, as applicable, shall be considered
fully occupied when occupancy reaches ninety-five percent (95%).
5.2.1 Allocations.  Unless Landlord otherwise elects  pursuant to this Section
5.2.1, Tenant shall pay each Operating Expense in accordance with Tenant’s Percentage.  Landlord
may allocate Operating Expenses among all buildings in the Project, or may allocate certain
Operating Expenses between or among a lesser number of buildings to which such Opera ting
Expenses apply.  Landlord shall have the right to make allocations ( “Allocations”) to Tenant of
any one or more Operating Expenses on a different basis if Landlord has a reasonable basis to do
so (for example, to reflect separate metering, different usage of spaces, such as office versus retail
use, the tax exempt status of a lessee, or disproportionate use or benefit  by one or more lessees )
and to allocate one or more Operating Expenses among fewer than all lessees of the Building or
Center.  For example, if Landlord deems it reasonable to do so, Landlord shall have the right to
elect at any time and from time to time (a) to make Allocations of certain Operating Expense items
among fewer than all lessees of the Building and/or Center and/or other t han based upon the
respective square footages of the lessees, (b) to make different Allocations for different Operating
Expenses, and/or (c) to alter an Allocation or the method of determining an A llocation from time
to time.  Landlord has the right to all ocate some or all Operating Expenses based on the ratio of
the rentable square footage of the Premises divided by the rentable square footage of the Project
and/or to and include in Operating Expenses for the Building a portion of Operating Expenses
common to the Center , provided that such Allocation does not result in duplication of any
Operating Expense.
5.3 Written Statement of Estimate .  Prior to the commencement of each Operating
Year during the Lease Term, Landlord shall furnish Tenant with a written s tatement setting forth
Tenant’s pro rata share of the estimated Taxes and Operating Expenses for the next Operating
Year.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent commencing on January 1 of the Operating
Year, and thereafter on the first day of each calendar month, an amount equal to one twelfth of the
amount of Tenant’s pro rata share as shown in Landlord’s written statement. In the event Landlord
delivers the written statement late, Tenant shall continue to pay to Landlord an amount equal to
one twelfth of Tenant’s pro rata share of the estimated Taxes and Operating Expenses for the

8 – LEASE AGREEMENT
immediately preceding Operating Year until Landlord does furnish the written statement, at which
time Tenant shall pay the amount of any excess of the Tenant’s pro rata share for the expired
portion of the current Operating Year over the Tenant’s actual payments during such time and any
excess payments by Tenant shall be credited to the next due payment of Rent from Tenant.  The
late delivery of any written st atement by Landlord shall not constitute a waiver of Tenant’s
obligation to pay its pro rata share of Taxes and Operating Expenses nor subject the Landlord to
any liability, but Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to deliver such written statements of
estimated increase in Taxes and Operating Expenses as soon as reasonably possible after the
commencement of each Operating Year.
5.4 Final Written Statement.  Within 120 days after the close of each Operating Year
during the Lease term, Landlord shall de liver to Tenant a written statement (the “Operating
Statement”) setting forth Tenant’s actual pro rata share of the Taxes and Operating Expenses for
the preceding Operating Year, and certified by Landlord as fairly stating the Taxes and Operating
Expenses for the Building and Center.  In the event Tenant’s pro rata share of the actual Taxes and
Operating Expenses is in excess of the Tenant’s pro rata share of estimated Taxes and Operating
Expenses, Tenant shall pay the amount of such excess to Landlord as Additional Rent within thirty
(30) days after receipt of such statement by Tenant.  In the event Tenant’s pro rata share of the
actual Taxes and Operating Expenses is less than the Tenant’s pro rata share of the estimated Taxes
and Operating Expenses actually paid by Tenant, then the amount of the excess overpayment shall
be paid by Landlord to Tenant within thirty (30) days following the date of such statement or
Landlord may elect to apply the overpayment to Tenant’s next Rent payment, reimbursi ng only
the excess over such next payment, if any.  The late delivery of any written statement by Landlord
shall not constitute a waiver of Tenant’s obligation to pay its pro rata share of Taxes and Operating
Expenses, but Landlord shall use reasonable e fforts to deliver such written statements as soon as
reasonably possible after the commencement of each Operating Year.
5.5 Tenant Examination.  The Operating Statement referred to herein need not be
audited but shall contain sufficient detail to enable Tenant to verify the calculation of its pro rata
share.  In addition, Tenant, upon at least five (5) days advance written notice to Landlord given
within twenty (20) days of receipt of an Operating Statement and during business hours, may
examine and audit any invoices, receipts, canceled checks, vouchers or other instruments used to
support the figures shown on the Operating Statement, provided, however, that Tenant shall only
be entitled to such an examination and audit once in each Operating Year.
5.6 Disputes.  Each such Operating Statement given by Landlord pursuant to this
Section shall be conclusive and binding upon Tenant unless within thirty (30) days after the receipt
of such Operating Statement Tenant shall notify Landlord that it disputes th e correctness of the
Operating Statement, specifying the particular respects in which the Operating Statement is
claimed to be incorrect.  If such disputes shall not have been settled by agreement, either party,
within thirty (30) days after receipt of such Operating Statement, may pursue its available legal
remedies, but Tenant hereby agrees that a dispute over the Operating Statement or any error by
Landlord in interpreting or applying Section 4 or in calculating the amounts in the Operating
Statement shall not be a breach of this Lease by Landlord, and even if any legal proceeding over
the Operating Statement is resolved against Landlord this Lease shall remain in full force and
effect and Landlord shall not be liable for any consequential damages , and pending the
determination of such dispute, Tenant, within ten (10) days of receipt of such Operating Statement,

9 – LEASE AGREEMENT
shall pay Additional Rent in accordance with the Operating Statement, without prejudice to
Tenant’s position.  If the dispute shall be determined in Tenant’s favor, Landlord shall forthwith
pay to Tenant the amount of Tenant’s overpayment of rents resulting from compliance with the
Operating Statement.
5.7 Payment.  If an Operating Year ends after the expiration or termination of this
Lease, the Additional Rent in respect thereof payable under this Section shall be paid by Tenant
within ten (10) days of its receipt of the Operating Statement for such Operating Year.
5.8 Limit on Recovery.  Landlord will not collect Taxes and Operating Expenses from
all of its tenants in the Center in an amount which is in excess of one hundred percent (100%) of
the Taxes and Operating Expenses actually paid or incurred by Landlord in connection with the
operation of the Center ; however, Landlord may a llocate Taxes and Operating Expenses on the
accrual method to fairly reflect the operation of the Building  and/or Center, including without
limitation treating Taxes as being incurred and paid in equal monthly installments notwithstanding
that Landlord may pay Taxes annually or in multiple installments.  Taxes will be figured on the
full amount of the levy without reduction for any discount that is available to Landlord for paying
in full instead of in installments.
SECTION 6. SECURITY DEPOSIT AND REPORTING
Intentionally omitted.
SECTION 7. SUBORDINATION, NOTICE TO SUPERIOR LESSORS AND
MORTGAGEES
7.1 Subordination.  Any lease to which this Lease is, at the time referred to, subject
and subordinate is herein called “Superior Lease” and the lessor of a Superior Lease or its successor
in interest, at the time referred to, is herein called “Superior Lessor,” and any mortgage to which
this Lease is, at the time referred to, subject and subordinate is herein called “Superior Mortgage”
and the holder of a Superior Mortgage, or its successor in interest, at the time referred to, is herein
called “Superior Mortgagee.”  This Lease, and all rights of Tenant hereunder, are and shall be
subject and subordinate to any ground or master leases covering the Land and/or the Building now
or hereafter existing, and to all mortgages which may now or hereafter affect the Land and/or the
Building and/or any of such leases, whether or not such mortgages shall also cover other lands
and/or buildings and/or leases, to each and every advance made or hereafter to be made under such
mortgages, and to all renewals, modifications, replacements and extensions of such leases and such
mortgages.  This Section shall be self -operative, and no further instrument of subordination shall
be required.  In confirmation of such subordination, Tenant shall promptly execute, acknowledge
or deliver an agreement in the form of Exhibit G or any other instrument that Landlord, any
Superior Lessor or any Superior Mortgagee may reasonably request to evidence such
subordination (a “Subordination Agreement”).  If Tenant fails to execute, acknowledge or deliver
any such instruments within ten (10) days after request therefor, Tenant hereby irrevocably
constitutes and appoints Landlord as Tenant’s attorney-in-fact, coupled with an interest, to execute
and deliver any such instruments for and on behalf of Tenant.

10 – LEASE AGREEMENT
7.2 Notice.  Tenant agrees to give any Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor, by
registered mail, a copy of any notice of default served upon the Landlord, provided that prior t o
such notice Tenant has been notified in writing (by way of notice of assignment of rents and leases,
or otherwise) of the address of such Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor.  If Landlord  shall
have failed to cure such default within thirty (30) days the Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor
shall have an additional thirty (30) days within which to cure such default or is such default cannot
be cured within that time, then such additional time as may be necessary to cure such default
(including t he time necessary to foreclose or otherwise terminate its Superior Mortgagee or
Superior Lessor, if necessary to effect such cure), and this Lease shall not be terminated so long
as such remedies are being diligently pursued.
7.3 Attornment.  For the purposes of this Section, the term “Successor Landlord” shall
mean the Superior Lessor or Superior Mortgagee if the same succeeds to the rights of Landlord
under this Lease, whether through possession or foreclosure action or delivery of a new lease or
deed, or any third party that succeeds to the rights of Landlord under this Lease by virtue of having
purchased the Land and the Building at a foreclosure sale.  At the request of a Successor Landlord
and upon such Successor Landlord’s written agreement to accept Tenant’s attornment, and to not
disturb Tenant’s quiet possession of the Premises, Tenant shall attorn to and recognize such
Successor Landlord as Tenant’s Landlord under this Lease and shall promptly execute and deliver
an instrument in the form attached as Exhibit  G or any other instrument that such Successor
Landlord may reasonably request to evidence such attornment.  Upon such attornment this Lease
shall continue in full force and effect as a direct lease between the Successor Landlord and Tenant
upon all of the terms, conditions and covenants as are set forth in this Lease except that the
Successor Landlord shall not:  (i) be liable for any previous act or omission of Landlord under this
Lease; (ii) be subject to any offset, deficiency o r defense which theretofore shall have accrued to
Tenant against Landlord; (iii)  be bound by any previous modification of this Lease or by any
previous prepayment of more than one (1) months’ Base Rent, unless such modification or
prepayment shall have been expressly approved in writing by the Superior Lessor or the Superior
Mortgagee through or by reason of which the Successor Landlord shall have succeeded to the right
of Landlord under this Lease; (iv) be liable for the commencement or completion of  any
construction or any contribution toward construction or installation of any improvements upon the
Premises required under this Lease, or any expansion or rehabilitation of existing improvements
upon the Premises, or for restoration of improvements following any casualty not required to be
insured under this Lease or for the costs of any restoration in excess of the proceeds recovered
under any insurance required to be carried under this Lease; (v)  be liable for the right and claim
under this Lease  in, to and upon any award or other compensation heretofore or hereafter to be
made for any taking by eminent domain of any part of the Premises, and as to the right of
disposition thereof, the same shall be in accordance with the provisions of any Supe rior Lease or
Superior Mortgage; (vi)  be liable for any right and claim under this Lease in, to and upon any
proceeds payable under all policies of fire and rent insurance upon the Premises and as to the right
of disposition thereof, the same shall be i n accordance with the terms of any Superior Lease or
Superior Mortgage; (vii)  be liable for any lien, right, power or interest, if any, which may have
arisen or intervened in the period between the recording of any Superior Mortgage and the
execution of this Lease or any lien or judgment which may arise at any time under the terms of
this Lease; or (viii)  be liable for the return of any Security Deposit which was not actually
transferred to the Successor Landlord.

11 – LEASE AGREEMENT
SECTION 8. QUIET ENJOYMENT
So long as Tenant pays all of the Base Rent and Additional Rent and performs all of
Tenant’s other obligations hereunder, Tenant shall peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy the
Premises without hindrance, ejection or molestation by Landlord or any person lawfully claiming
through or under Landlord, subject nevertheless, to the provisions of this Lease and to any Superior
Lease and/or Superior Mortgage.  This covenant shall be construed as a covenant running with the
Land, and is not, nor shall it be construed as, a personal covenant of Landlord, except to the extent
of Landlord’s interest in this Lease and only so long as such interest shall continue, and thereafter
this covenant shall be binding only upon subsequent successors in interest of Landlord’s interest
in this Lease, to the extent of their respective interests, as and when they shall acquire the same,
and so long as they shall retain such interest.
SECTION 9. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING
9.1 Generally.  Tenant shall not sell, assign, sublet, or otherwise transfer by operation
of law or otherwise this Lease or any interest herein, or the Premises or any portion thereof, without
the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed, nor shall Tenant encumber or permit any lien to be placed on the Tenant’s interest in this
Lease.  In no event will Tenant assign this Lease or sublease all or part of the Premises in violation
of Exhibit F or allow any assignee or sublessee to make a use that violates this Lease.  Any change
in effective control of a corporation, partnership or other artificial entity which is the Tenant shall
be deemed a transfer of this Lease.  Any transfer hereunder by Tenant shall not result in Tenant
being released or discharged from any liability under this Lease.  Any sale, assignment,
encumbrance, subletting, occupation, lien or other transfer of this Lease which does not comply
with this provision shall be, at Landlord’s election, void.  Any listing on Center directories or other
signage using a name other than T enant’s in conjunction with the Premises will not be deemed,
nor will it substitute for, Landlord’s consent, as required by this Lease, to any sublease, assignment
or other occupancy of the Premises.
9.1.1 Tenant shall, by written notice, advise Landlord of its desire from and after
a stated date (which shall not be less than thirty (30) days nor more than ninety (90) days after the
date of Tenant’s notice), to transfer its interest in the Premises or any portion thereof for any part
of the term hereof; and such notice by Tenant shall state the name and address of the proposed
transferee, and Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a true and complete copy of the proposed transfer
instrument with said notice.  Tenant hereby agrees to pay to Landlord all attorneys fees a nd other
costs incurred by Landlord related to any proposed transfer, whether Landlord’s consent is granted
or the transfer consummated.
9.1.2 Following any request by Tenant to assign this Lease or to sublet all or any
part of the Premises, Landlord shall have the right to either: (a) permit the transfer on the conditions
referred to in Section  9.2 and any other conditions Landlord may impose, or (b) deny Tenant’s
request, in which event this Lease shall continue in full force and effect and unmodified.
9.2 Conditions of Landlord’s Consent.  As a condition to Landlord’s prior written
consent as provided for in this Section, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a fully executed Consent
and Assumption Agreement provided by Landlord and an executed copy of each transfer

12 – LEASE AGREEMENT
instrument executed by each transferee.  Landlord may require as a condition of granting consent
to a transfer that Tenant shall pay to Landlord all profits from the transfer determined by deducting
from the total consideration paid directly or indirectly to or for the benefit of Tenant or its designee
for the transferred interest, the reasonable costs of the transfer incurred by the Tenant and
subtracting the remaining rent obligation of the Tenant at such time under this Lease.  For purposes
of determining all profits from the transfer, substance shall control over form such that Landlord
may ignore any attempt by Tenant to inflate the purchase price of any other assets transferred in
an attempt to conceal the profit on the transfer of the Tenant’s interest in this Lease.  Sums payable
hereunder shall be paid to Landlord as and when paid by the transferee to Tenant.
SECTION 10. INSURANCE
10.1 Waiver of Right of Recovery.  Neither party, nor its officers, directors, employees,
agents or invitees, nor, in case of Tenant, its subtenants, shall be liable to the other party or to any
insurance company (by way of subrogation or otherwise) insuring the other party for any loss or
damage to any building, structure or other tangible property normally covered under a standard
policy of insurance for fire, theft and extended coverage, or losses under workers’ compensation
laws and benefits, even though such loss or damage might have been occasioned by the negligence
of such party, its agents or employees; provided, however, that  if, by reason of the foregoing
waiver, either party shall be unable to obtain any such insurance, such waiver shall be deemed not
to have been made by such party and, provided, further, that if either party shall be unable to obtain
any such insurance without the payment of an additional premium therefor, then, unless the party
claiming the benefit of such waiver shall agree to pay such party for the cost of such additional
premium within thirty (30) days after notice setting forth such requirement and the amount of the
additional premium, such waiver shall be of no force and effect between such party and such
claiming party.
10.2 Commercial General Liability Insurance.  Tenant, at its expense, shall maintain
at all times during the term of this Lease,  commercial general liability insurance in respect of the
Premises and the conduct or operation of business therein, with Landlord and its managing agent,
if any, and any Superior Lessor or Superior Mortgagee whose name and address shall previously
have be en furnished to Tenant, as additional insureds, with Two Million and No/100 Dollars
($2,000,000.00) minimum combined single limit coverage, or its equivalent.  If Tenant serves or
sells alcohol, such insurance shall include full liquor liability coverage.  All such insurance shall
insure the performance by Tenant of the indemnity agreement as to liability for injury to, illness
of, or death of persons and damage to property set forth in Section 17.  Tenant shall also maintain
a policy or policies of all ris k property, fire, and extended coverage insurance (“causes of loss –
special form”), including without limitation, coverage of vandalism and malicious mischief, an
inflation endorsement, and a sprinkler leakage endorsement, in an amount equal to one hundre d
percent (100%) of the full insurance replacement value of the Tenant’s personal property and
alterations, additions and improvements made by or for Tenant in the Premises.  Such policy shall
include an endorsement deleting the co-insurance provision.  Tenant shall deliver to Landlord and
any additional insured fully paid policies or certificates of all such insurance, in form satisfactory
to Landlord issued by the insurance company or its authorized agent, at least ten (10) days before
the Commencement Date.  Tenant shall procure and pay for renewals of such insurance from time
to time before the expiration thereof, and Tenant shall deliver to Landlord and any additional
insured such renewal policy or certificate at least thirty (30) days before the expira tion of any

13 – LEASE AGREEMENT
existing policy.  All such policies shall contain a provision whereby the same cannot be canceled
or modified unless Landlord and any additional insured are given at least twenty (20) days prior
written notice of such cancellation or modification.
10.3 Acceptable Insurance Companies.  All insurance policies required to be carried
by Tenant hereunder shall be issued by responsible insurance companies authorized to issue
insurance in the st ate where the Premises are located rated A+VII or higher b y Best’s Insurance
Rating Service.
10.4 Increase in Coverage.  Landlord may from time to time, but not more frequently
than once every three (3) years, require that the amount of commercial general liability insurance
to be maintained by Tenant under Section 10.2 be increased so that the amount thereof adequately
protects the Landlord’s interest based on amounts of coverage required of comparable tenants in
comparable buildings.
10.5 Tenant’s Self-Insurance.  Landlord acknowledges and agrees that Tenant is self-
insured for the risks for which insurance is required under this Lease and that, for so long as Tenant
remains self-insured, Tenant shall not be required to provide the insurance otherwise required by
this Section 10. For purposes of the blanket additional insured provision in Tenant’s follow form
excess liability insurance policy, Landlord and its members, officers, directors, and employees are
hereby required to be, and shall be deemed, to be additional insureds.
SECTION 11. RULES AND REGULATIONS
Tenant shall faithfully observe and comply with the rules and regulations printed on or
annexed to this Lease as Exhibit H and all reasonable modifications thereof and additions thereto
from time to time established by Landlord by written notice to Tenant.  Lan dlord shall not be
responsible for the nonperformance by any other lessee or occupant of the Building and/or Center
of any said rules and regulations but Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to remedy any violation
of the rules and regulations applicable to any other Building and/or Center occupant that materially
adversely affects Tenant’s use of the Premises following Tenant’s request.
SECTION 12. ALTERATIONS
12.1 Requirements.  Tenant shall not make or suffer to be made any alterations,
additions, or improvements in, on, or to the Premises or any part thereof without the prior written
consent of Landlord.  Any such alterations, additions, or improvements in, on, or to said Premises,
except for Tenant’s movable furniture and equipment, shall immediately become Landlord’s
property and, at the end of the term hereof, shall remain on the Premises without compensation to
Tenant.  In the event Landlord consents to the making of any such alterations, additions, or
improvements by Tenant, the same shall be made by Tenant, at Tenant’s sole cost and expense, in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by Landlord, and any contractor or person
selected by Tenant to make the same must first be approved in writing by Landlord.  If the
alterations, additions or i mprovements shall be made by Landlord for Tenant’s account, Tenant
shall reimburse Landlord for the cost thereof within twenty (20) days after receipt of a statement,
setting forth the actual cost of such alterations, additions or improvements.  In any event Tenant
shall pay Landlord an administrative charge of fifteen percent (15%) of the actual cost of such

14 – LEASE AGREEMENT
alterations, additions or improvements.  After the expiration or sooner termination of the Lease
Term and upon demand by Landlord, Tenant shall remove any or all alterations, additions, or
improvements made by or for the account of Tenant, designated by Landlord to be removed and
all cabling installed by Tenant, and Tenant shall repair and restore the Premises to their original
condition, subject to ordinary wear and tear.  Such removal, repair and restoration work shall be
done promptly and with all due diligence at Tenant’s sole cost and expense.
The following provisions apply to all alterations.
(a) Tenant shall obtain all required permits and de liver a copy of the
same to Landlord.  Tenant shall install all alterations in strict compliance with all permits, any
plans approved by Landlord, all conditions to Landlord’s approval, and all legal requirements.
(b) If reasonably requested by Landlord, Tenant shall deliver to
Landlord, within ten (10) days following installation of each alteration, (w) accurate, reproducible
as-built plans, (x)  proof of final inspection and approval by all governmental authorities,
(y) complete lien waivers for all costs of the alteration, and (z)  a copy of a recorded notice of
completion.
(c) Tenant shall cause all contractors, suppliers and others doing work
in the Building for Tenant to obtain a copy of Landlord’s then current rules and procedures for
such work and to comply wi th such rules and procedures.  Tenant acknowledges that such rules
and procedures include restrictions on lobby and elevator use, restrictions on the days and hours
when certain work is allowed, and other restrictions which will affect the conduct of such work.
(d) Landlord reserves the right to require that certain types of work at
the Center (including, for example, any work affecting the electrical or mechanical systems of the
Building) be subcontracted to subcontractors designated by Landlord.  No such desi gnation shall
create any liability on the part of Landlord.
(e) Tenant shall pay all costs of alterations as and when due.  Tenant
shall not allow any lien to be filed.
(f) Tenant shall be solely responsible to maintain and to insure all
alterations and to restore the same following any casualty.
12.2 Indemnification of Landlord.  Tenant, at its expense, and with diligence and
dispatch, shall procure the cancellation or discharge of all notices of violation arising from or
otherwise connected with alterations, or any other work, labor, services or materials done for or
supplied to Tenant, or any other person claiming through or under Tenant, which shall be issued
by any public authority having or asserting jurisdiction.  Subject to the limitations and conditions
of the Oregon Constitution and the Oregon Tort  Claims Act (ORS 30 .260 to 30.300), including
(without limitation) specifically subject to and within the financial limits and conditions set forth
at ORS 30.272 for local public bodies and at ORS 30.273 for public bodies, Tenant shall defend,
indemnify and save harmless Landlord and any Superior Lessor or Superior Mortgagee from and
against any and all mechanics’ and other liens and encumbrances filed in connection with
alterations, or any other work, labor, services or materials done for or supplied to Tenant, or any
person claiming through or under Tenant, including, without limitation, security interests in any

15 – LEASE AGREEMENT
materials, fixtures or articles so installed in and constituting part of the Premises and against all
costs, expenses and liabilities incurred in connection w ith any such lien or encumbrance or any
action or proceeding brought thereon.  Tenant, at its expense, shall procure the satisfaction or
discharge of record of all such liens and encumbrances within fifteen (15) days after the filing
thereof.  Nothing he rein contained shall prevent Tenant from contesting, in good faith and at its
own expense, any notice of violation, or lien provided Tenant posts for the protection of Landlord
security acceptable to Landlord.
SECTION 13. LANDLORD’S AND TENANT’S PROPERTY
13.1 Landlord’s Property.  All fixtures, carpeting, equipment, improvements and
appurtenances attached to or built into the Premises at the commencement of or during the term of
this Lease, whether or not by or at the expense of Tenant, shall be and remain a part of the Premises,
shall be deemed the property of Landlord and shall not be removed by Tenant, except as provided
in Section 13.2; provided, that at Landlord’s written request, Tenant shall, at its sole expense and
upon termination of the Lease, re move those items specified by Landlord.  Tenant’s covenant to
remove property specified by Landlord shall survive the termination of this Lease.
13.2 Tenant’s Property.  All safes, low voltage cabling, unattached business and trade
equipment, business and  trade fixtures, machinery and equipment  (including but not limited to
Tenant’s security and access equipment), communications equipment and other equipment and all
furniture, furnishings (excluding window coverings) and other articles of movable persona l
property owned by Tenant and located in  or about  the Premises (herein collectively called
“Tenant’s Property”) shall be and remain the property of Tenant and shall be removed by Tenant
before the expiration or termination of this Lease or Tenant’s right of possession; provided, Tenant
shall repair or pay the cost of repairing any damage to the Premises or to the Center resulting from
the installation and/or removal thereof.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Tenant
shall remove all low voltage cabling back to the DMARC room.
13.3 Abandonment.  Any items of Tenant’s Property which shall remain in the Premises
after the expiration date of this Lease, or after a period of fifteen (15) days following an earlier
termination date, at the option of Landlord, may be deemed to have been abandoned, and in such
case such items may be retained by Landlord, without accountability, in such manner as Landlord
shall determine at Tenant’s expense.
SECTION 14. SERVICES AND UTILITIES
14.1 Maintenance by Landlord.  Except for Tenant’s maintenance responsibilities set
forth above in Section 3, Landlord shall maintain the Center, including the  public and common
areas of the Building and/or Center , in reasonably good order and condition except for damage
occasioned by the act of the Tenant, which damage shall be repaired by Landlord at Tenant’s
expense.
14.2 Utilities; Janitorial Service.  Tenant shall arrange and pay when due all charges
for water, sewer, electricity, gas, telephone service and other utilities and ser vices supplied to the
Premises (“Utility Charges”).  If any such utilities are not separately metered or assessed, then in
addition to Tenant’s payment of separately metered charges, Tenant shall pay to Landlord Tenant’s

16 – LEASE AGREEMENT
pro rata share of the charges for non-separately metered utilities, which shall be calculated and/or
allocated by Landlord in the manner described in Section 5.  At any time,  Landlord may, at
Landlord’s option, install or require Tenant to install submeters.  If Landlord does so, Tenant shall
pay to Landlord the submetered Utility Charges on the first day of each calendar month provided
such Utility Charges shall not exceed the rates Tenant would be charged if billed directly for the
same services by the utility company.  Tenant shall supply  its own janitorial service and  trash
removal service, at Tenant’s expense.  Trash shall be stored and picked up in a manner and at times
consistent with the operation of a retail center.
14.3 Excess Usage.  Tenant shall pay the actual cost of metered electricity each month
as and when due.  If Tenant uses excessive amounts of non metered utilities or services of any kind
because of operation outside of normal Building hours, high demands from machinery and
equipment, nonstandard lighting, or any other cause, Landlord may impose a reasonable charge
for supplying such extra utilities services, which charge shall be payable monthly by Tenant in
conjunction with Rent payments.  In the case of excess electricity usage, Landlord will charge
Tenant at Landlord’s actual cost, without markup.  Landlord may install in the Premises a special
meter to measure the amount of water, electric current or other resource consumed for any such
other use.  In case of dispute over any extra charge under this paragraph, Landlord shall designate
a qualified independent engineer whose decision shall be conclusive on both parties.  The party
not prevailing in such dispute shall pay the cost of such engineer’s determination.
14.4 Disclaimer.  Landlord shall not be in default hereunder or be liable for any damages
directly or indirectly resulting from, or by reason of (i)  the installation, use or interruption of use
of any equipment in connection with the furnishing of the foregoing utilities and services,
(ii) failure to furnish or delay in furnishing any such utilities or services when such failure or delay
is caused by acts of God or the elements, labor disturbances of any character, any other accidents
or other conditions beyond the reasonable control of Landlord, or by the ma king of repairs or
improvements to the Premises or the Center , or (iii)  the limitation, curtailment, rationing or
restriction on use of water or electricity, gas or any other form of energy or any other service or
utility whatsoever serving the Premises or the Center.  Furthermore, Landlord shall be entitled to
cooperate voluntarily in a reasonable manner with the efforts of national, state or local
governmental agencies or utilities suppliers in reducing energy or other resource consumption.
14.5 Use of Common Areas and Facilities.  All common facilities and areas furnished
by Landlord in or near the Building and/or Center, including parking areas, lighting facilities,
pedestrian sidewalks and ramps, landscaped areas, exterior stairways, rest rooms an d other areas
and improvements provided by Landlord for the general use, in common, of tenants, their officers,
agents, employees and customers shall at all times be subject to the exclusive control and
management of Landlord.  Without limiting the scope of such discretion, Landlord shall have the
full right and authority to employ all personnel and to establish, modify and enforce reasonable
rules and regulations necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of common areas and
facilities.  Landlord shall have the right to close all or any portion of the common areas or facilities
to such extent as, in the opinion of Landlord’s legal counsel, may be legally sufficient to prevent
a dedication thereof or the accrual of any rights to any person (other than Tenant) or the public
therein; and to do and perform such other acts in and to said areas and improvements as the
Landlord shall reasonably determine to be advisable.  All common areas and facilities not within
the Premises, which Tenant may be permitted to use and occupy, are to be used and occupied under

17 – LEASE AGREEMENT
a revocable license, and if the amount of such areas be diminished, Landlord shall not be subject
to any liability nor shall Tenant be entitled to any compensation or diminution or abatement of
Rent, nor shall such diminution of such areas be deemed constructive or actual eviction.
14.6 Signage.
14.6.1 Tenant shall be permitted to install Building standard signage for the
Premises.  All signs will be in compliance with applicable law and Landlord’s standard sign criteria
as in effect from time to time.  Tenant’s signs shall be subject to Landlord’s prior written approval
which shall not be withheld unless Landlord determines that the proposed signage is inconsistent
with the criteria or with the cha racter of the Center.  All signage material and installation will be
at Tenant’s sole cost and expense.  At its cost, Tenant shall remove all of its signage and restore
all affected surfaces at the end of this Lease.  Tenant shall not place or suffer to be  placed on the
exterior walls of the Premises, or any exterior door or wall, or on any exterior or interior window,
any other sign or any awning, canopy, marquee, advertising matter, decoration, picture, letter or
other thing of any kind without the prior written consent of Landlord.  If Tenant shall install any
sign or other such item without Landlord’s consent and/or in violation of the foregoing, Landlord
shall have the right and authority without liability to Tenant to enter upon the Premises, remove
and store the subject sign and repair at Tenant’s cost all damage caused by the removal of the sign.
14.6.2 Tenant shall have the right, at its sole cost and expense, to erect and
maintain within the interior of the Premises signs and advertising matter customary or appropriate
in the conduct of Tenant’s business that comply with all laws and are first approved in writing by
Landlord; provided, however, that Tenant shall upon demand of Landlord immediately remove
any sign, advertisement, decoration, lettering or notice which Tenant has placed or permitted to be
placed in, upon or about the Premises and that Landlord reasonably deems objectionable or
offensive, and if Tenant fails or refuses to so do, Landlord may enter upon the Premises and remove
the same at Tenant’s cost and expense.  In this connection, Tenant acknowledges that the Premises
are a part of an integrated business environment, and that control of all signs by Landlord is
essential to the maintenance of uniformity, propriety and the aesthetic values in or pertaining to
the Center.
14.6.3 Tenant may not display or sell merchandise or allow carts or other similar
devices to be stored or to remain outside the defined demising walls and permanent doorways of
the Premises.  Tenant shall not install any exterior lighting, amplifiers, or similar devices or use in
or about the Premises such items as flashing lights, searchlights, loudspeakers, phonographs or
radio broadcasts, nor make, or allow to be made, any odor or excessive noise in or around the
Premises.  No advertisement or sound of advertising shall be permitted to be heard outside of the
Premises.
14.7 Security.  Landlord has no duty to provide security for any portion of the Building
and/or Center.  To the extent Landlord elects to provide any security, Landlord is not warranting
the effectiveness of any security personnel, services, procedures or equipment and Tenant shall
not rely on any such personnel, services, procedures or equipment.  Landlor d shall not be liable
for failure of any such security personnel, services, procedures or equipment to prevent or control,
or to apprehend anyone suspected of, personal injury or property damage in, on or around the

18 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Building and/or Center. Tenant shall be allowed to install at the Premises, at Tenant’s discretion
and expense, its standard security and secured access measures.
14.8 EVCS.  Tenant hereby waives any and all rights to install or to require Landlord to
make available any electric vehicle charging station(s), whether such rights are granted by or under
any present or future law, including, without limitation, ORS Chapter 386 (Oregon Laws 2017).
SECTION 15. ACCESS AND NAME
Landlord reserves and shall at all times have the right to enter the Premises upon 24 hours’
prior notice to Tenant (except in an emergency) to inspect the same, to perform any of its duties
or exercise any rights hereunder, to show said Premises to prospective purchasers, mortgagees or
tenants, to post notices of nonresponsibilit y, and to alter, improve or repair any portion of the
Building and/or Center, without abatement of Rent.  Landlord may for such purpose erect, use and
maintain scaffolding, pipes, conduits and other necessary structures in and through the Premises
where reasonably required by the character of the work to be performed, provided that entrance to
the Premises shall not be blocked thereby, and further provided that the business of Tenant shall
not be interfered with unreasonably.  Tenant hereby waives any  claim for damages for any
inconvenience to or interference with Tenant’s business, any loss of occupancy or quiet enjoyment
of the Premises.  For each of the purpose s stated in this Section, Landlord shall at all times have
and retain a key with which to unlock all of the doors in, upon and about the Premises, excluding
Tenant’s vaults and safes or special security areas (designated in advance).  Landlord shall h ave
the right to use any and all means which Landlord may deem necessary or proper to open all doors
in an emergency, in order to obtain entry to any portion of the Premises, and any entry to any
portion of the Premises obtained by Landlord by any such means, or otherwise shall not under any
circumstances be construed or deemed to be a forcible or unlawful entry into, or a detainer of, the
Premises, or an eviction, actual or constructive, of Tenant from all or part of the Premises.
Landlord shall als o have the right at any time, without the same constituting an actual or
constructive eviction and without incurring any liability to Tenant, to change the arrangement
and/or location of entrances or passageways, doors and doorways, corridors, stairs, toilets or other
public parts of the Building and/or Center and to change the name, number or designation by which
the Building and/or Center are commonly known.
SECTION 16. NOTICE OF OCCURRENCES
Tenant shall give prompt notice to Landlord of:  (i) any occurrence in or about the Premises
for which Landlord might be liable; (ii) any fire or other casualty in the Premises; (iii) any damage
to or defect in the Premises including the fixtures, equipment and appurtenances thereof, for the
repair of which Landlord might be responsible; and (iv)  damage to or defect in any part or
appurtenances of the Building’s sanitary, electrical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, or other
systems located in or passing through the Premises or any part thereof.
SECTION 17. NONLIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION
17.1 Waiver.  Landlord shall not be liable for any loss or damage to person or property
sustained by Tenant, or other persons, which may be caused by theft, or by any act or neglect of
any tenant of the Building  and/or Center or by any other person in or about the Building  and/or

19 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Center.  Neither Landlord nor any partner, director, officer, agent, servant or employee of Landlord
shall be liable to Tenant for any loss, injury or damage to Tenant or to any other person, or to its
or their prope rty, irrespective of the cause of such injury, damage or loss, except to the extent
caused by or resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord, its agents,
servants or employees in the operation or maintenance of the Premises or the Building  and/or
Center.  Further, neither Landlord nor any partner, director, officer, agent, servant or employee of
Landlord shall be liable:  (i)  for any such damage caused by other tenants or persons in, upon or
about the Building and/or Center, or caused by operations in construction of any private, public or
quasi-public work; or (ii)  even if negligent, for consequential damages, including lost profits, of
Tenant or any person claiming through or under Tenant.
17.2 Indemnification.  Subject to t he limitations and conditions of the Oregon
Constitution and the Oregon Tort  Claims Act (ORS 30.260 to 30.300), including (without
limitation) specifically subject to and within the financial limits and conditions set forth at ORS
30.272 for local public b odies and at ORS 30.273 for public bodies, Tenant shall indemnify and
defend Landlord and all Superior Lessors and Superior Mortgagees, and their officers, directors,
employees and agents, harmless for, regarding, from and against any and all liabilities, penalties,
losses, damages, costs and expenses, demands, causes of action, claims or judgments (including,
without limitation, attorneys’ fees and expenses) (collectively, “Claims”) arising, claimed or
incurred against or by Landlord, or its officers, directors, employees or agents, from any matter or
thing arising from (i) the use or occupancy of the Premises or the Building and/or Center by Tenant
or any subtenant or assignee of Tenant, or any of their respective officers, directors, employees,
agents, licensees and invitees, the conduct of Tenant’s business, or from any activity, work or other
thing done, permitted or suffered by Tenant in or about the Premises or the Building and/or Center;
(ii) any accident, injury to or death of Tenant and/or its offic ers, directors, employees, agents,
invitees or licensees or loss of or damage to property of Tenant or any such persons occurring on
or about the Premises, the Building  and/or Center  or any part thereof during the term hereof;
(iii) any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on Tenant’s part or to be performed
under the terms of this Lease; or (iv) the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of
any materials or other property in respect of the Premises or any part thereof at t he request of
Tenant, or its officers, directors, agents and employees.
17.3 Duty to Defend .  In case any action or proceeding is brought against Landlord
and/or any Superior Lessor and/or Superior Mortgagee and/or its or their partners, directors,
officers, agents and/or employees and such claim is a claim from which Tenant is obligated to
indemnify Landlord pursuant to Section 17.2, Tenant, upon notice from Landlord or such Superior
Lessor or Superior Mortgagee, shall resist and defend such action or proceeding .  The obligation
of Tenant under this Section 17 shall survive termination of this Lease.
SECTION 18. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION
18.1 Casualty.  If the Premises or the Building are damaged by fire or other casualty,
Landlord shall forthwith repair the same unless this Lease is terminated as permitted herein.
Within thirty (30) days from the date of such damage, Landlord shall notify Tenant if the Building
is damaged in excess of twenty five percent (25%) of the B uilding’s precasualty value, as
reasonably determined by Landlord (damage in excess of such amount being referred to as “Major
Damage” and damage equal to or less than such amount being referred to as “Minor Damage”).  If

20 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Major Damage occurs, Landlord may elect to terminate the Lease.  If Minor Damage occurs, then
Landlord shall repair such damage and rebuild that portion of the Building or the Premises
damaged.  In the event of Major Damage, if Landlord gives its written notice to Tenant electing to
rebuild or in the event of Minor Damage, this Lease shall remain in full force and effect except the
Rent shall be reasonably abated during the period of repair based on that portion of the Premises
not reasonably usable by Tenant.  If in the event of M ajor Damage, Landlord elects by written
notice to Tenant not to rebuild, then this Lease shall automatically terminate as of the effective
date of such notice, the Rent shall be reduced by a proportionate amount based upon the extent to
which said damag e interfered with the business carried on by Tenant in the Premises, and the
Tenant shall pay such reduced Rent up to the date of termination.  Landlord agrees to refund to
Tenant any Rent previously paid for any period of time subsequent to such date of termination.
Landlord shall not be required to repair any damage by fire or other cause to the property of Tenant
or any alterations, additions, fixtures or improvements installed on the Premises by or at the
expense of Tenant.
18.2 Condemnation.  If mor e than ten percent (10%) of the Land or more than ten
percent (10%) of the Building shall be taken or appropriated under the power of eminent domain
or conveyed in lieu thereof, Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease.  If such taking
renders the Premises unsuitable for the conduct of Tenant’s business then Tenant shall have the
right to terminate this Lease.  If this Lease is terminated, Landlord shall receive (and Tenant shall
assign to Landlord upon demand from Landlord) any and all income, rent, award or any interest
thereon which may be paid or owed in connection with the exercise of such power of eminent
domain or conveyance in lieu thereof, and Tenant shall have no claim against the agency exercising
such power or receiving such conveyance, for any part of such sum paid by virtue of such
proceedings, whether or not attributable to the value of the unexpired term of this Lease, except
only for the value of any personal property of Tenant that is taken and relocation benefits, if a ny.
If a part of the Land and/or Building shall be so taken or appropriated or conveyed and Landlord
shall elect not to terminate this Lease, Landlord shall nonetheless receive (and Tenant shall assign
to Landlord upon demand from Landlord) any and all income, rent, award or any interest thereon
paid or owed in connection with such taking, appropriation or conveyance; and if the Premises
have been damaged as a consequence of such partial taking or appropriation or conveyance,
Landlord shall restore the Premises and this Lease shall remain in full force and effect except that
Tenant shall be entitled to an appropriate reduction in Rent while such restoration is being made
by Landlord.  Such proportionate reduction shall be based upon the extent to which the restoration
being made by Landlord shall interfere with the business carried on by Tenant in the demised
Premises.  Landlord will not be required to repair or restore any injury or damage to the property
of Tenant or make any repairs or restoration to any alterations, additions, fixtures or improvements
installed in the Premises by or at the expense of Tenant.  Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Lease, Tenant may separately pursue claim s against the condemnor for the value of Tenant's
personal property which Tenant is entitled to remove under this Lease, moving costs, loss of
business, and other claims it may lawfully have , but only to the extent any such claims will not
reduce Landlord's award.
SECTION 19. SURRENDER AND HOLDING OVER
19.1 General.  On the last day of the term of this Lease, or upon reentry by Landlord
upon the Premises, Tenant shall quit and surrender the Premises to Landlord “broom clean” and

21 – LEASE AGREEMENT
in good order, condition and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear in accordance with the
provisions of Section 13 of this Lease.
19.2 Surrender.  No agreement relating to the surrender of the Premises by Tenant shall
be enforceable against Landlord unless in writing and signed by Landlord.
19.3 Holding Over with Consent.  Any holding over after the expiration of the term of
this Lease with the written consent of Landlord shall be a tenancy from month to month.  The
terms, covenants and conditions of such tenancy shall be the same as provided herein, and the
monthly Base Rent shall be 125% of the amount of the Base Rent for the last month prior to the
date of such expiration or termination.  Acceptance by Landlord of Rent after such expiration shall
not result in any other tenancy or any renewal of the term of this Lease, and the provisions of this
Section are in addition to and do not affect Landlord’s right of re -entry or other rights provided
under this Lease or by applicable law.
19.4 Holding Over Without Consent.  If Tenant shall retain possession of the Premises
or any part thereof without Landlord’s consent following the expiration or sooner termination of
this Lease for any reason, then Tenant shall pay to Landlord for each day of such retention 200%
of the amount of the daily Base Rent for the last month prior to the date of such expiration or
termination, plus all Additional Rent.  However, if Tenant shall retain possession of the Premise
after the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease, and provided Landlord and Tenant are
actively engaged in good faith negotiations for the extension or renewal of this Lease, then Tenant
shall pay to Landlord for each day of such retention 150% of the amount of the daily Base Rent
for the last month prior to the date of such expiration or termination, plus all Additiona l Rent.  In
all cases of holding over without consent, Tenant shall defend, indemnify and hold Landlord
harmless from any loss or liability resulting from delay by Tenant in surrendering the Premises,
including, without limitation, any claims made by any s ucceeding tenant founded on such delay.
If Landlord gives notice to Tenant of Landlord’s election thereof, any holding over without consent
shall constitute renewal of this Lease for a period specified by Landlord not to exceed six (6)
months or as a mont h to month tenant, at the applicable rental rate described in this Section.
Acceptance of Rent by Landlord following expiration or termination shall not constitute a renewal
of this Lease, and nothing contained in this Section shall waive Landlord’s right of re-entry or any
other right.  Unless Landlord exercises the option hereby given to it, Tenant shall be only a Tenant
at sufferance, whether or not Landlord accepts any Rent from Tenant while Tenant is holding over
without Landlord’s written consent.
SECTION 20. EVENTS OF DEFAULT
20.1 Events of Default.  The occurrence of any one or more of the following shall be an
event of default under this Lease by Tenant:
20.1.1 If Tenant shall fail to pay any Security Deposit, Base Rent or Additional
Rent, and such failure shall conti nue for ten (10) days after Landlord shall have given Tenant a
notice specifying the same; or
20.1.2 If Tenant shall, whether by action or inaction, fail to perform any of its
obligations under this Lease (other than the payment of any Security Deposit, Base R ent or

22 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Additional Rent) and such failure shall continue and not be remedied within twenty (20) days after
Landlord shall have given to Tenant a notice specifying the same, or, in the case of a failure that
cannot with due diligence be cured within a peri od of twenty (20) days and the continuance of
which for the period required for cure will not subject Landlord or any Superior Lessor to
prosecution for a crime or termination of any Superior Lease or foreclosure of any Superior
Mortgage, if Tenant shall not, (i) within said twenty (20) day period advise Landlord of Tenant’s
intention to take all steps necessary to remedy such failure; (ii) duly commence within said twenty
(20) day period, and thereafter diligently prosecute to completion, all steps ne cessary to remedy
the failure; and (iii) complete such remedy within a reasonable time after the date of said notice of
Landlord; or
20.1.3 If any event shall occur or any contingency shall arise whereby this Lease
or the estate hereby granted or the unexpired balance of the term hereof would, by operation of
law or otherwise, devolve upon or pass to any person, firm or corporation other than Tenant, except
as expressly permitted by Section 9; or
20.1.4 If Tenant shall vacate or abandon the Premises; excluding a ny temporary
cessation of business operations in the Premises due to casualty, remodeling or alterations (not to
exceed thirty (30) days), force majeure, emergency or other acts of God and beyond the control of
Tenant; or
20.1.5 If Tenant or any guarantor of Tenant’s obligations shall make a general
assignment for the benefit of creditors, or shall be unable to pay its debts as they become due, or
shall file a petition in bankruptcy, or shall be adjudicated as bankrupt or insolvent, or shall file a
petition se eking any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation,
dissolution or similar relief under any present or future statute, law or regulation, or shall file an
answer admitting or shall fail timely to contest the material allegations of a petition filed against it
in any such proceeding, or shall seek or consent to or acquiesce in the appointment of any trustee,
receiver or liquidator of Tenant or any material part of its properties; or
20.1.6 If within ninety (90) days after the commenc ement of any proceeding
against Tenant seeking any reorganization, arrangement, composition, readjustment, liquidation,
dissolution or similar relief under any present or future statute, law or regulation, such proceeding
shall not have been dismissed or if, within ninety (90) days after the appointment without the
consent or acquiescence of Tenant of any trustee, receiver or liquidator of Tenant or of any material
part of its properties, such appointment shall not have been vacated; or
20.1.7 If this Lease or any estate of Tenant hereunder shall be levied upon under
any attachment or execution and such attachment or execution is not vacated within ten (10) days.
20.2 Limitation of Tenant Right to Notice .  During any twelve (12) month period,
Tenant shall be entitled to only two (2) notices pursuant to Section 20.1.1 and one (1) notice each
for the same type of default pursuant to Section 20.1.2.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with
respect to any subsequent default of the same type, Landlord shall furnish Tenant with written
notice of such subsequent default but Tenant’s cure period may be shortened or eliminated at
Landlord’s discretion.

23 – LEASE AGREEMENT
SECTION 21. REMEDIES UPON DEFAULT
21.1 Remedies. Upon the occurrence of an event of default of this Lease under
Section 20, Landlord may exercise any one or more of the remedies set forth in this Section 21 or
in Section 24, or any other remedy available under applicable law or contained in this Lease.
21.1.1 Landlord or Landlord’s agents and employees may immediately or at any
time thereafter reenter the Premises, or any part thereof, either by summary eviction proceedings
or by any suitable action or proceeding at law, or by force or otherwise, without being liable to
indictment, prosecution or damages therefor, and may repossess the sam e, and may remove any
person therefrom, to the end that Landlord may have, hold and enjoy the Premises.
21.1.2 Landlord at its option may relet the whole or any part of the Premises from
time to time, either in the name of the Landlord or otherwise, to such tenants, for such terms ending
before, on or after the expiration date of the Lease Term, at such rentals and upon such other
conditions (including concessions, tenant improvements, and free rent periods) as Landlord may
determine to be appropriate.  Landlord at its option may make such physical changes to the
Premises as Landlord considers advisable or necessary in connection with any such reletting or
proposed reletting, without relieving Tenant of any liability under this Lease or otherwise affecting
Tenant’s liability.  If there is other unleased space in the Center , Landlord may lease such other
space without prejudice to its remedies against Tenant.
21.1.3 Whether or not Landlord retakes possession or relets the Premises, Landlord
shall have the right  to recover unpaid rent and all damages caused by the default, including
reasonable attorneys’ fees.  Damages shall include, without limitation:  (i)  all rentals lost; (ii) all
legal expenses and other related costs incurred by Landlord following Tenant’ s default; (iii) all
costs incurred by Landlord in restoring the Premises to the good order and condition, or in
remodeling, renovating or otherwise preparing the Premises for reletting; and (iv) all costs incurred
by Landlord in reletting the Premises , including, without limitation, any brokerage commissions
and the value of Landlord’s time.
21.1.4 To the extent permitted under law, Landlord may sue periodically for
damages as they accrue without barring a later action for further damages.  Landlord may i n one
action recover accrued damages plus damages attributable to the remaining Lease Term equal to
the difference between the rent reserved in this Lease (including an estimated amount of Additional
Rent as determined by Landlord) for the balance of the Lease Term after the time of award, and
the fair rental value of the Premises for the same period, discounted to the time of award at the rate
of nine percent (9%) per annum.  If Landlord has relet the Premises for the period which otherwise
would have constituted the unexpired portion of the Lease Term or any part, the amount of rent
reserved upon such reletting shall be deemed, prima facie, to be the fair and reasonable rental value
for the part or the whole of the Premises so relet during the term of the reletting.
21.2 Cumulative Remedies.  The remedies provided for in this Lease are cumulative
and are not intended to be exclusive of any other remedies to which Landlord may lawfully be
entitled at any time, and Landlord may invoke any remedy allowed at law or in equity, including
an action for specific performance, as if specific remedies were not provided for herein.  In the

24 – LEASE AGREEMENT
event of a breach or threatened breach by Tenant of any of its obligations under this Lease,
Landlord shall also have the right to obtain an injunction and any other appropriate equitable relief.
21.3 Termination.  Even though Tenant has breached this Lease, the Lease shall
continue in effect for so long as Landlord does not agree in writing to terminate Tenant’s
continuing contractual liability, and Landlord may enforce all its rights and remedies under this
Lease, including the right to recover the rent as it becomes due under this Lease.  Acts of
maintenance or preservation or efforts to relet the Premises or the appointment of a receiver upon
initiative of Landlord to protect Landlord’s interest under this Lease shall not constitute a
termination of Tenant’s right to possession except to the extent required otherwise under law or
unless written notice of termination is given by Landlord to Tenant.
21.4 Interest on Damages.  In addition to any other remedies Landlord may have under
this Lease, and without reducing or adversely affecting any of Landlord’s rights and remedies
under this Section 21, if any Base Rent, Additional Rent or damages payable hereunder by Tenant
to Landlord are not paid within five (5) days after demand therefor, the same shall bear interest at
the annual rate of fifteen percent (15%) or the maximum rate permitted by law, whichever is less,
calculated monthly from the due date thereof until paid, and the amount of such interest shall be
included as Additional Rent hereunder.
SECTION 22. SERVICES IN THE EVENT OF DEFAULT
In addition to any rights and remedies which Landlord may have under this Lease, if there
shall be a default hereunder by Tenant which shall not have been remedied within the applicable
grace period, Landlord shall not be obligated to furnish Tenant or the Premises any heat, ventilation
or air conditioning services outside of the B usiness Hours on business days, or any extra or
additional cleaning services; and the discontinuance of any one or more such services shall be
without liability by Landlord to Tenant and shall not reduce, diminish or otherwise affect any of
Tenant’s covenants and obligations under this Lease.
SECTION 23. NO WAIVERS OF PERFORMANCE
The failure of either party to insist in any one or more instances upon the strict performance
of any one or more of the obligations of this Lease, or to exercise any election herein containe d,
shall not be construed as a waiver or relinquishment for the future of the performance of such one
or more obligations or any other obligations of this Lease or of the right to exercise such election,
but the same shall continue and remain in full force  and effect with respect to any subsequent
breach, act or omission.  The receipt by Landlord of Rent with or without knowledge of a failure
by Tenant to perform any obligation of this Lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such failure.
Landlord may accept partial payment of amounts due without waiver of default or of its right to
pursue all remedies for the balance unpaid.
SECTION 24. CURING TENANT’S DEFAULTS
All covenants and agreements to be performed by the Tenant under any of the terms of this
Lease shall be performed by Tenant at Tenant’s sole cost and expense and without any abatement
of Rent except as expressly provided otherwise herein.  If the Tenant shall fail to pay any sum of
money, other than Rent, required to be paid by it hereunder or shall fail to pe rform any other act

25 – LEASE AGREEMENT
on its part to be performed hereunder, and such failure shall continue for the periods referred to in
Section 20 hereof after notice thereof by the Landlord, the Landlord may make any such payment
or perform any such act on the Tenan t’s part to be made or performed as in this Lease provided
but shall not be obligated so to do.  Any such payment or performance shall not be a waiver or
release of Tenant’s obligations.  All sums so paid by the Landlord and all necessary incidental
costs together with interest thereon at the rate specified in Section  21.4 from the date of such
payment by the Landlord shall be payable as Additional Rent to the Landlord on demand, and the
Tenant covenants to pay any such sums, and the Landlord shall have, in addition to any other right
or remedy of the Landlord, the same rights and remedies in the event of the nonpayment thereof
by the Tenant as in the case of default by the Tenant in the payment of the Rent.
SECTION 25. BROKER
Tenant covenants, warrants and represents that no broker except as provided in the Basic
Lease Information (the “Broker”) was instrumental in bringing about or consummating this Lease
and that Tenant had no conversations or negotiations with any broker except the Broker concerning
the leasing of the Premises.  Tenant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Landlord against and
from any claims for any brokerage commissions and all costs, expenses and liabilities in
connection therewith, including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and e xpenses, arising out of
any conversations or negotiations had by Tenant with any broker other than the Broker.  Landlord
shall pay any brokerage commissions due the Broker as per a separate agreement between
Landlord and the Broker.
SECTION 26. NOTICES
Any notice, statement, demand, consent, approval or other communication required or
permitted to be given, rendered or made by either party to the other, pursuant to this Lease or
pursuant to any applicable law or requirement of public authority, shall be in writing (whether or
not so stated elsewhere in this Lease).  Notices shall be deemed to have been properly given,
rendered or made:  if delivered in person to the Landlord or Tenant and receipt is acknowledged;
or, if sent postage prepaid by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, effective when
posted in a United States post office station or letter box in the continental United States, (or, if
sent by commercial overnight courier, prepaid for next day delivery, effective when delivered to
the courier in the continental United States) addressed to the other party at the address designated
by the party (except that after the Commencement Date, Tenant’s address, unless Tenant shall give
notice to the contrary, shall be the Premises).  Either  party may, by notice as aforesaid, designate
a different address or addresses for notices, statements, demands, consents, approvals or other
communications intended for it.
SECTION 27. ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES
Tenant agrees, at any time and from time to time, as requ ested by Landlord with not less
than ten (10) days’ prior notice, to execute and deliver a statement certifying that this Lease is
unmodified and in full force and effect (or if there have been modifications, that the same is in full
force and effect as modified and stating the modifications), certifying the dates to which the Base
Rent and Additional Rent have been paid, stating whether or not Landlord is in default in
performance of any of its obligations under this Lease, and, if so, specifying each  such default,

26 – LEASE AGREEMENT
and stating whether or not any event has occurred which with the giving of notice or passage of
time, or both, would constitute such a default, and, if so, specifying each such event, it being
intended that any such statement delivered pursuant hereto shall be deemed a representation and
warranty to be relied upon by Landlord and by others with whom Landlord may be dealing,
regardless of independent investigation.  Tenant also shall include in any such statement such other
information concerning this Lease as Landlord may reasonably request.  Without limiting the
foregoing, Tenant shall upon request execute a Statement of Tenant in the form attached as
Exhibit I.  If Tenant fails to respond within fifteen (15) days of receipt by Tenant of a written
request for such a statement, Tenant shall be deemed to have given such statement and shall be
deemed to have admitted the accuracy of any information contained in the request for such
statement and that the Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect, that there are not uncured
defaults in Landlord’s performance, and that not more than one (1) month’s rent has been paid in
advance.
SECTION 28. MEMORANDUM OF LEASE
Tenant shall not record this Lease.  Upon ten (10) days’ prior written notice from Landlord,
Tenant shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to Landlord a memorandum of lease in respect of
this Lease sufficient for recording.  Such memorandum shall not be deemed to change or otherwise
affect any of the obligations or provisions of this Lease.
SECTION 29. RELOCATION OF PREMISES
Intentionally omitted.
SECTION 30. ADJUSTMENT OF COMMENCEMENT AND EXPIRATION
DATES
Intentionally omitted.
SECTION 31. MISCELLANEOUS
31.1 Merger.  All understandings and agreements heretofore had between the parties
are merged in this Lease and any other written agreement(s) made concurrently herewith, which
alone fully and completely express the agreement of the parties and which are entered in to after
full investigation, neither party relying upon any statement or representation not embodied in this
Lease or any other written agreement(s) made concurrently herewith.   Landlord has made no
representations or warranties except as contained herein.  No agent or broker of Landlord has
authority to make nor has made any promise, warranty or representation to Tenant.  No
representation or covenant has been made regarding the size, number or operation of other lessees
of the Building  and/or Center .  Any offering materials or advertisements are specifically
disclaimed and are superseded by this Lease; Tenant has not relied upon any of the same.  Except
only for Landlord’s covenants stated in this Lease, the Premises is leased “AS IS.”
31.2 Modifications.  No agreement shall be effective to change, modify, waive, release,
discharge, terminate or effect an abandonment of this Lease, in whole or in part, unless such
agreement is in writing, refers expressly to this Lease and is signed by the party against w hom
enforcement is sought.  If Tenant shall at any time request Landlord to sublet the Premises for

27 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Tenant’s account, Landlord or its agent is authorized to receive the keys for such purposes without
releasing Tenant from any of its obligations under this Lease, and Tenant hereby releases Landlord
of any liability for loss or damage to any of the Tenant’s Property in connection with such
subletting.
31.3 Successors and Assigns.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Lease, the
obligations of this  Lease shall bind and benefit the successors and assigns of the parties hereto
with the same effect as if mentioned in each instance where a party is named or referred to;
provided, however, that:  (i)  no violation of the provisions of Section 9 shall operate to vest any
rights in any successor or assignee of Tenant; and (ii)  the provisions of this Section shall not be
construed as modifying the provisions of Sections 9 or 20.
31.4 Nonrecourse Lease.  Tenant shall look only to Landlord’s estate and proper ty in
the Land and the Building for the satisfaction of Tenant’s remedies for the collection of a judgment
requiring the payment of money by Landlord in the event of any default by Landlord hereunder,
and no other property or assets of (a)  Landlord, or (b) its agents, partners or principals, or of the
agents of employees of Landlord or of the foregoing (the “Protected Parties”), shall be subject to
levy, execution or other enforcement procedure for the satisfaction of Tenant’s remedies under or
with respect to this Lease, the relationship of Landlord and Tenant hereunder or Tenant’s use or
occupancy of the Premises.  No Protected Party shall have any liability whatsoever to Tenant.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease (x) Landlord shall in no event be liable for lost
business, lost profits or any form of consequential damages, and (y)  upon a sale or other
conveyance or transfer of the lessor’s interest in this Lease, the transferring Landlord shall be
automatically released from any liability thereafter arising.
31.5 Force Majeure.  The obligations of Tenant hereunder shall be in no way affected,
impaired or excused, nor shall Tenant have any remedy or Landlord have any liability whatsoever
to Tenant, because Landlord is unable to fulfill, or i s delayed in fulfilling, any of its obligations
under this Lease by reason of:
31.5.1 strike, other labor trouble, governmental preemption of priorities or other
controls in connection with a national or other public emergency or shortages of fuel, any other
act or order of government, an epidemic or pandemic, including COVID-19, delays in the issuance
of permits or governmental inspections, supplies or labor resulting therefrom, or any other cause,
whether similar or dissimilar, beyond Landlord’s reasonable control; or
31.5.2 any failure or defect in the supply, quantity or character of electricity, water
or other utilities furnished to the Premises, by reason of any requirement, act or omission of the
public utility or others serving the Building with electric ene rgy, steam, oil, gas or water, or for
any other reason whether similar or dissimilar, beyond Landlord’s reasonable control.
31.6 Definitions.  For the purpose of this Lease, the following terms have the meanings
indicated:
31.6.1 The term “mortgage” shall include a mortgage and/or deed of trust, and the
term “holder of a mortgage” or “mortgagee” or words of similar import shall include a mortgagee
of a mortgage or a beneficiary of a deed of trust.

28 – LEASE AGREEMENT
31.6.2 The term “Legal Requirements” shall mean laws and ordinances of any or
all of the federal, state, city, town, county, borough and village governments and rules, regulations,
orders and directives of any and all departments, subdivisions, bureaus, agencies or offices thereof,
and of any other governmental, public or quasi -public authorities having jurisdiction over the
Building and/or the Premises, and the direction of any public officer pursuant to law, whether now
or hereafter in force.
31.6.3 The term “requirements of insurance bodies” and words of similar import
shall mean rules, regulations, orders and other requirements of any Surveying and Rating Bureau
and/ or any other similar body performing the same or similar functions and having jurisdiction or
cognizance over the Building and/or the Premises, whether now or hereafter in force.
31.6.4 The term “Tenant” shall mean the Tenant herein named or any assignee or
other successor in interest (immediate or remote) of the Tenant herein named, which at the time in
question is the owner of the Tenant’s estate and interest g ranted by this Lease; but the foregoing
provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to permit any assignment of this Lease or to
relieve the Tenant herein named or any assignee or other successor in interest (whether immediate
or remote) of th e Tenant herein named from the full and prompt payment, performance and
observance of the covenants, obligations and conditions to be paid, performed and observed by
Tenant under this Lease.  If more than one person or entity constitutes the Tenant, all  are jointly
and severally liable hereunder.
31.6.5 The term “Landlord” shall mean only the owner at the time in question of
the Building or of a lease of the Building, so that in the event of any transfer or transfers of title to
the Building or of Landlord’s interest in a lease of the Building, the transferor shall be and hereby
is relieved and freed of all obligations of Landlord under this Lease accruing after such transfer,
and it shall be deemed without further agreement that such transferee has assumed and agreed to
perform and observe all obligations of Landlord herein during the period it is the holder of
Landlord’s interest under this Lease.
31.6.6 The term “herein,” “hereof” and “hereunder,” and words of similar import,
shall be construed to refer to t his Lease as a whole, and not to any particular Section, unless
expressly so stated.
31.6.7 The term “and/or” when applied to two or more matters or things shall be
construed to apply to any one or more or all thereof as the circumstances warrant at the time i n
question.
31.6.8 The term “person” shall mean natural person or persons, a partnership, a
corporation and any other form of business or legal association or entity.
31.7 Effect of Expiration .  Upon the expiration or other termination of this Lease,
neither party shall have any further obligation or liability to the other except as otherwise expressly
provided in this Lease and except for such obligations as by their nature or under the circumstances
can only be, or by the provisions of this Lease, may be, perfor med after such expiration or other
termination; and, in any event, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Lease, any obligation
of Tenant, including but not limited to liability for a payment (including, without limitation,

29 – LEASE AGREEMENT
Additional Rent, herein) which shall have accrued prior to the expiration or other termination of
this Lease shall survive the expiration or other termination of this Lease.
31.8 Modifications for Superior Mortgagee.  If any Superior Mortgagee shall require
any modification(s) of this Lease, Tenant upon ten (10) days’ prior written notice of Landlord’s
request, shall execute and deliver to Landlord such instruments effecting such modification(s) as
Landlord shall require, provided that such modification(s) do not adversely affect in a ny material
respect any of Tenant’s rights under this Lease.
31.9 Excavation.  If an excavation shall be made upon land adjacent to or under the
Building, or shall be authorized to be made, Tenant shall afford to the person causing or authorized
to cause such excavation license to enter the Premises for the purpose of performing such work as
said person shall deem necessary or desirable to preserve and protect the Building from injury or
damage and to support the same by proper foundations, and without reducing or otherwise
affecting Tenant’s obligations under this Lease.
31.10 Union Contracts .  Tenant agrees that the exercise of its rights pursuant to the
provision of Section 12 or of any other provisions of this Lease or the Exhibits hereto shall not be
done in a manner which would violate Landlord’s union contracts affecting the Land and/or
Building, nor create any lawful work stoppage, picketing, labor disruption or dispute or any
interference with the business of Landlord or any tenant or occupant of the Building.
31.11 Prorations.  Any apportionments or prorations of Base Rent or Additional Rent to
be made under this Lease shall be computed on the basis of a three hundred sixty (360) day year,
with twelve (12) months of thirty (30) days each.
31.12 Interpretation.  Regardless of the place of execution or performance, this Lease
shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state in which the Premises
are located.  If any provision of this Lease or the application thereof to any person or circumstances
shall, for any reason and to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease
and the application of that provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected but
rather shall be enforced to the ext ent permitted by law.  The table of contents, captions, heading
and titles in this Lease are solely for convenience or reference and shall not affect its interpretation.
Each covenant, agreement, obligation or other provision of this Lease on Tenant’s p art to be
performed shall be deemed and construed as a separate and independent covenant of Tenant, not
dependent on any other provision of this Lease.  All terms and words used in this Lease, regardless
of the number or gender in which they are used, shall be deemed to include any other number and
any other gender as the context may require.  Time is of the essence of this Lease and all of its
provisions.
31.13 No Additional Rights.  Any diminution or shutting off of light, air or view by any
structure which may be erected on lands adjacent to or near the Building or Center shall in no way
affect this Lease or impose any liability on Landlord.  Landlord has not promised, and this Lease
is not made on the condition, that any other lessees will occupy any part of the Center or that any
other lessee will make any particular use of its space.

30 – LEASE AGREEMENT
31.14 Tenant Representations.  Each person executing this Lease on behalf of Tenant
does hereby covenant and warrant that:
31.14.1 Tenant is duly organized and validly existing as a a county and political
subdivision of the State of Oregon under the laws of the State of Oregon  and, if domiciled in a
different state, is qualified to transact business in Oregon;
31.14.2 Tenant has full right and authority to enter into this Lease and to perform
all Tenant’s obligations hereunder; and
31.14.3 Each person signing this Lease on behalf of Tenant is duly and validly
authorized to do so.
31.15 Defined Terms.  Words capitalized other than as the first word of a sentence are
defined terms and have the meaning, throughout this Lease, given to them when they are first used
with an initial capital or when used in quotation marks.
31.16 Examination, Execution and Delivery. Submission of this document for
examination and signature by Tenant is not an offer to lease and does not create a reservation or
option to lease.  Landlord may negotiate with, and lease the Premises to, other third parties and
may cease negotiation with Tenant at any time.  No claim for reliance, estoppel, contract, breach
of good faith, or other claim can be made based upon the circulation and negotiation of this Lease.
This document will become effective and binding only upon full execution and delivery by both
Tenant and Landlord.  This Lease and all later documents, such as amendments, (a)  may be
executed by electronic signature, and (b)  may be executed and delivered in counterpart, and
(c) may be delivered electronically (provided, if requested by Landlord, Tenant shall deliver a
manually executed original of any of the foregoing to Landlord).  Electronic records and electronic
signatures may be used in connection with the execution of this Lease and such later documents,
and the same shall be legal and binding and have the same full force and effect as if a paper original
of this Lease or such document had been signed using a handwritten signature.  Landlord and
Tenant (i) intend to be bound by electronic signatures and by documents sent or delivered by
electronic mail or other electronic means, (ii)  are aware that t he other party will rely on such
signatures and delivery, and (iii) hereby waive any defenses to the enforcement of the terms of this
Lease or any later documents based on the foregoing forms of signature or delivery.  The foregoing
does not prohibit the use of handwritten signatures or physical delivery.
31.17 Costs and Attorney Fees.
31.17.1 No Suit or Action Filed .  If this Lease is placed in the hands of an
attorney due to a default in the payment or performance of any of its terms, the defaulting party
shall pay, immediately upon demand, the other party’s reasonable attorney fees, collection costs
even though no suit or action is filed thereon, and any other fees or expenses incurred by the
nondefaulting party.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither party shall be responsible for attorney
fees incurred by the other for customary matters that reasonably could have been handled through
normal administrative action.
31.17.2 Arbitration or Mediation; Trial and Appeal .  If any arbitration,
mediation, or other procee ding is brought in lieu of litigation, or if legal action is instituted to

31 – LEASE AGREEMENT
enforce or interpret any of the terms of this Lease or if legal action is instituted in a Bankruptcy
Court for a United States District Court to enforce or interpret any of the te rms of this Lease, to
seek relief from an automatic stay, to obtain adequate protection, or to otherwise assert the interest
of Landlord in a bankruptcy proceeding, the party not prevailing shall pay the prevailing party’s
costs and disbursements, the f ees and expenses of expert witnesses in determining reasonable
attorney fees, and such sums as the court may determine to be reasonable for the prevailing party’s
attorney fees connected with the trial and any appeal and by petition for review thereof.
31.17.3 Definitions.  For purposes of this Lease, the term attorney fees includes
all charges of the prevailing party’s attorneys and their staff (including without limitation legal
assistants, paralegals, word processing, and other support personnel) and any postpetition fees in
a bankruptcy court.  For purposes of this Lease, the term fees and expenses includes but is not
limited to long -distance telephone charges; expenses of facsimile transmission; expenses for
postage (including costs of registered or certified mail and return receipts), express mail, or parcel
delivery; mileage and all deposition charges, including but not limited to court reporters’ charges,
appearance fees, and all costs of transcription; costs incurred in searching records.
31.18 Consent.  Unless Landlord’s consent or approval is required by the express terms
of this Lease not to be unreasonably withheld, such approval or consent may be withheld by
Landlord in its sole and arbitrary discretion.  The grant of any consent or approval re quired from
Landlord under this Lease shall be proved only by proof of a written document signed and
delivered by Landlord expressly setting forth such consent or approval.  Any consent may be issued
subject to conditions determined by Landlord, in its sol e discretion.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Lease, the sole and exclusive remedy of Tenant for any alleged or actual improper
withholding, delaying or conditioning of any consent or approval by Landlord shall be the right to
specifically enf orce any right of Tenant to require issuance of such consent or approval on
conditions not prohibited by this Lease; in no event shall Tenant have the right to terminate this
Lease, to collect monetary damages, or to pursue any other remedy for any actual or alleged
improper withholding, delaying or conditioning of any consent or approval, regardless of whether
this Lease requires that such consent or approval not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or
delayed.
31.19 USA Patriot Act Compliance .  Tenant represents to Landlord that Tenant is not
(and is not engaged in this transaction on behalf of) a person or entity with which Landlord is
prohibited from doing business pursuant to any law, regulation or executive order pertaining to
national security (“Anti -Terrorism Laws”).  Anti -Terrorism Laws, as referenced above, shall
specifically include, but shall not limited to, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107- 56
(aka, the USA Patriot Act); Executive Order 13224; the Bank Secrecy Act, 31 U.S.C. Section 5311
et. seq.; the Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. App. Section 1 et. seq.; the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. Section 1701 et. seq.; sanctions and regulations
promulgated pursuant thereto by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), as well as laws
related to the prevention and detection of money laundering in 18 U.S.C. Sections 1956 and 1957.
[signatures follow]

32 – LEASE AGREEMENT
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have duly executed this Lease Agreement
as of the date and year first above written.
LANDLORD:

Hayden Meadows, a Joint Venture
an Oregon general partnership

By: Meadows Land Partnership, an Oregon
general partnership, its Managing Partner

By: D Park Corporation, an Oregon
corporation, its Managing Partner

 By: ________________________________
        Vanessa Sturgeon, President & CEO

Date:

Email: vanessa@tmtdevelopment.com

TENANT:

Multnomah County, an Oregon political subdvision

By:
   Deborah Kafoury, Chair

Date:

Email: scott.churchill@multco.us

1 – EXHIBIT A:  The Building
EXHIBIT A
The Building

1 – EXHIBIT B:  The Center
EXHIBIT B
The Center

1 – EXHIBIT C:  Floor Plan of Demised Premises
EXHIBIT C
Floor Plan of Demised Premises
19,000 RSF

1 – EXHIBIT D:  Work Agreement
EXHIBIT D
Work Agreement
SECTION 1.   GENERAL
 1.1 Lease. This Work Agreement (“Work Agreement”) is being entered into between
Landlord and Tenant in connection with the execution of the Lease executed of even date
herewith.
 1.2 Defined Terms. Except as otherwise defined in this Work Agreement, all
capitalized terms used in this Work Agreement have the same meaning given such term in the
Lease. When work, services, consents or approvals are to be provided by or on behalf of
Landlord, the term “Landlord” includes Landlord’s employees and/or agents.
 1.3 Lease Provisions Apply. The terms of the Lease, except where clearly
inconsistent or inapplicable to this Work Agreement, are hereby added to and incorporated into
this Work Agreement as if fully set forth herein.
SECTION 2. LANDLORD’S WORK
Landlord shall deliver the Premises, with Landlord’s Work substantially complete and
otherwise in “AS-IS” condition. Landlord’s Work is described in Schedule 1 to this Work
Agreement. Tenant accepts the Premises in “AS-IS” condition and as being in the condition in
which Landlord is obligated to deliver them and otherwise in good order, condition and repair.
SECTION 3.  TENANT’S WORK
1.1 Tenant Work.  Tenant inten ds to install certain leasehold improvements in the
Premises (the “Tenant Improvements”). Tenant Improvements are described in Schedule 1 to this
Work Agreement .  The installation of such Tenant Improvements shall be accomplished in
accordance with this Wo rk Agreement and also all other applicable provisions of the Lease;
provided, in the event of a conflict, the provisions of this Exhibit shall control.  The installation of
such Tenant Improvements is herein referred to as “Tenant’s Work.”
1.2 Plans.  Prior to commencing Tenant’s Work, Tenant shall obtain Landlord’s prior
written approval of the final plans and specifications for Tenant’s Work, which approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld, but which may be issued subject to reasonable conditions.  The fina l
plans and specifications as approved by Landlord are herein referred to as the “Final Plans.”
1.3 Permits and Approvals.  Prior to commencing any construction activity, Tenant
shall obtain, at its sole cost and expense, all permits and approvals necessary to perform Tenant’s
Work in accordance with the Final Plans.  Copies of all such permits and approvals shall be
delivered to Landlord as obtained.
1.4 Construction.  Tenant shall comply with the following provisions.

2 – EXHIBIT D:  Work Agreement
(a) Course of work .  Tenant shall commence construction of Tenant ’s Work
promptly after fulfillment of the above provisions.  Tenant ’s Work shall be constructed
continuously and expeditiously to proceed to final completion.  Tenant’s Work shall be conducted
and scheduled so as to avoid disruption of the operations of other tenants or occupants of the Center
and to avoid any odor or noise that disturbs any other lessee .  No dust or debris shall be created,
nor materials stored, outside of enclosed Premises.
(b) Compliance.  Tenant’s Work shall be constructed in strict conformity with
all applicable permits and approvals, all applicable laws, any conditions of Landlord’s approval of
the Final Plans, and any reasonable directions or requirements of Landlord’s property manager.
(c) Deliveries.  Upon final comple tion, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord the
following, as applicable:
(i) A complete set of “as built” plans and specifications showing fully
and in detail all work, including changes from the approved Final Plans and any variations from
the work as shown on the Final Plans.
(ii) A complete copy of all inspection reports from governmental
authorities and of all certificates of occupancy.
(iii) A copy of all warranties from the architect, the general contractor,
all subcontractors, and all material suppliers, together with an assignment of the rights of Tenant
with respect to all such warranties in form acceptable to Landlord.
(iv) A certified copy of a completion notice showing proper recording.
(v) Paid invoices and unconditional lien waivers for all of Tenant’s
Work.
1.5 Liens.  Tenant shall pay, as and when due, all amounts with respect to the Tenant’s
Work.  Tenant shall not allow any claim of lien to be perfected by filing with respect to Tenant ’s
Work.  In the event any such claim of lien is filed, and Tenant does not discharge (and deliver to
Landlord proof of discharge of) the lien within ten (10) business days, then without waiver of such
default or of other rights or remedies, but with at least two (2) business days ’ notice to Tenant,
Landlord shall have the right to cause such claim of lien to be removed by any means, including
by payment; Landlord is not obligated to inquire as to the validity of any such lien or to determine
whether all amounts claimed are due.  Tenant acknowledges that Tenant ’s failure to discharge a
lien and the subsequent payment of the same by Landlord may preclude Tenant from contesting
the amount claimed.  Any amounts expended by Landlord in connection with such claim of lien
and/or in payment or other discharge of such lien shall be immediately reimbursed from Tenant to
Landlord.
1.6 Construction Insurance.  Prior to commencing any construction activity at the
Premises, Tenant shall obtain the following insurance:  Complete course of construction insurance
in form and content satisfactory to Landlord.  The form of insurance shall be delivered to Landlord
for approval prior to commencement of construction.  A copy of the policies and a certificate
indicating that such insurance is in effect and fully paid and that the same will not be terminated

3 – EXHIBIT D:  Work Agreement
or modified without at least 10 days prior written notice to Landlord shall be delivered to Landlord
prior to the commencement of any construction activity at the Premises.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph, Landlord acknowledges that Tenant maintains insurance
standards with which its construction contractors must comply and, therefore,  so long as Tenant
applies such standards to all of Tenant’s contracts for Tenant’s Work, Tenant shall be deemed in
compliance with the provisions of this paragraph.
1.7 Construction Oversight.  Landlord and its property manager shall have the right
to conduct such construction oversight, as desired, and for this purpose shall at all times have
access to the Premises.  Landlord and/or its property manager (or designee) shall be given the
schedule for all project meetings and shall have the right to attend all such meetings.  Landlord
and Landlord’s agents shall have the right, but not the obligation, to inspect the construction of
Tenant’s Work from time to time during the progress thereof.  If Landlord shall give Tenant written
notice of faulty construction or any deviation from the Final Plans (except as approved in writing
by Landlord), Tenant shall promptly make the necessary corrections to Landlord’ s reasonable
satisfaction.  However, neither the right herein granted to Landlord to make such inspections, nor
the making of such inspections by Landlord, shall operate as a waiver of any rights of Landlord to
require good and workmanlike performance of all Tenant ’s Work in accordance with the
requirements of this Work Agreement.  Notwithstanding any inspection or acceptance by Landlord
of Tenant’s Work, or any portion thereof, Tenant acknowledges that Landlord’ s sole interest in
doing so is to protect the Building and Landlord’ s interests.  Accordingly, Tenant shall not rely
upon Landlord’s inspections or approvals, and agrees that Landlord shall not be the guarantor of,
nor responsible for, any of Tenant ’s Work .  Tenant shall be solely responsible for, and shall
remedy, at Tenant’s sole expense, any and all defects in Tenant’s Work that may appear during or
after the completion thereof, whether the same shall affect the Premises in particular or any part
of the Building in general.

4 – EXHIBIT D:  Work Agreement
SCHEDULE 1

Landlord’s Work

Landlord will be responsible for the following:
1. Removal of all personal property inside the Premises.
2. Repair flooring in the office/conditioned areas where flooring is uneven.

     Tenant Improvements
Tenant will be responsible for the following:
1. Add access hardware.
2. Installation of IT/security.
3. Provide power/data throughout the Premises.

1 – EXHIBIT E:  Legal Description for Land
EXHIBIT E
Legal Description for Land
DELTA MEADOWS, BLOCK 2, LOT 7

1 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
EXHIBIT F
Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
1. The Premises shall not be used as a Convenience Store with a Motor Fuels
Facility. Convenience Store means a retail store selling, renting or providing substantially all of
the merchandise and/or services customarily sold, rented or provided from time to time at
convenience stores operated or franchised by 7-Eleven within the State of Oregon and including
by way of example, but not limited to, stores such as a Cumberland Farms, Circle K, Stop N
Shop, On the Run, High’s, Store 24, WaWa, and Kwik Stop, and other similar regional
convenience stores; however, a full line or specialty grocer, or a store selling, renting, or
providing only some but not substantially all of such merchandise or services on an ancillary
basis, is not a Convenience Store.

2. The Premises shall not be used as a liquor store or a tavern, bar, nightclub,
cocktail lounge, discotheque, dance hall, or any other establishment selling alcoholic beverages
for on-premises consumption; provided, however, the foregoing shall not prohibit the operation
of a restaurant where the sale of alcoholic beverages therein comprises less than thirty (30%)
percent of the restaurant's gross revenues.

3. The Premises shall not be used as a theater (motion picture or live performance).

4. The Premises shall not be used as a health club, gymnasium, or spa.

5. The Premises shall not be used as a service station, automotive repair shop or
truck stop.

6. The Premises shall not be used as a flea market or pawn shop.

7. The Premises shall not be used as a training or educational facility (including
without limitation, a school, college, reading room or other facility catering primarily to students
and trainees rather than customers; provided that such restriction shall not prohibit the incidental
use of an otherwise permitted business for training or classes, such as “how to” classes taught in
conjunction with the sale of retail items from an otherwise permitted retail use).

8. The Premises shall not be used as a car wash, except on an Outparcel and where
the same shall have constructed and shall use sanitary sewer, water, and storm water drainage
lines entirely separate from those utilized by Lowe’s.

9. The Premises shall not be used as a medical clinic or office.

10. [Intentionally omitted].

2 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
11. The Premises shall not be used as a dry-cleaning plant, central laundry, or
laundromat.

12. The Premises shall not be used for selling automobiles, trucks, mobile homes,
recreational motor vehicles (provided that such restriction shall not prohibit the lease of vehicles
or equipment from Lowe’s).

13. The Premises shall not be used as a child day care facility.

14. The Premises shall not be used as a hotel or motel.

15. The Premises shall not be used as public-facing governmental offices, but internal
office and administration uses may occur in support of the Permitted Use.

16. The Premises shall not be used as an adult-type bookstore or other establishment
selling, renting, displaying, or exhibiting pornographic or obscene materials (including without
limitation, magazines, books, movies, videos, photographs or so-called “sexual toys”) or
providing adult-type entertainment or activities (including, without limitation, any displays of a
variety involving, exhibiting, or depicting sexual themes, nudity, or lewd acts).

17. The Premises shall not be used as an Adult Gift Shop, defined as a retail
establishment meeting any of the following criteria: (1) offers for sale or rental more than 25% of
its total stock in trade any one or any combination of the following: sexual enhancement devices
or sexual marital aids, erotically themed gifts or novelties, sexual toys, erotic massage aids
and/or lubricants, or erotic media; (2) more than 5% of its total public floor space is utilized for
displaying any one or any combination of the following: sexual enhancement devices, sexual
marital aids, erotically themed gifts or novelties, sexual toys, erotic massage aids and/or
lubricants, or erotic media.

18. Any “Pornographic Use”, which shall include, without limitation: (a) a store,
theater or other establishment displaying for sale or exhibition books, magazines or other
publications containing any combination of photographs, drawings, or sketches of a sexual
nature, which are not primarily scientific or educational.

19. The Premises shall not be used as a mortuary, crematorium, or funeral home.

20. The Premises shall not be used as a mobile home or trailer court, labor camp,
junkyard, or stockyard (except that this provision shall not prohibit the temporary use of
construction trailers during periods of construction, reconstruction, or maintenance).

21. The Premises shall not be used as a land fill, garbage dump or for the dumping,
disposing, incineration or reduction of garbage (exclusive of designated trash receptacles, trash

3 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
compactors, or trash containers located near the rear of the Building or other reasonably located
location) or refuse.

22. The Premises shall not be used as a telephone call center.

23. The Premises shall not be used as a gambling facility or operation including but
not limited to off-track or sports betting parlor; table games such as black-jack or poker; slot
machines; video poker/black-jack/keno machines or similar devices; or bingo hall.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this prohibited use shall not apply to governmental sponsored
gambling activities (such as Oregon Lottery video poker machines), or charitable gambling
activities, so long as such governmental and/or charitable activities are incidental to the business
operation being conducted by the Occupant.

24. The Premises shall not be used as a veterinary hospital or animal raising or
keeping facilities; provided, however, that a retail business specializing in pet animals and pet
animal supplies and products that include pet care or grooming clinics as an incidental part of its
business (similar to those operated by or as PetCo and PetSmart) may be located in the Shopping
Center; and provided, further, that the foregoing prohibition shall not apply to the existing
business operated by Hayden Meadows Pet Clinic located in Meadows Square as shown on the
Site Plan.

25. The Premises shall not be used as an assembling, manufacturing, industrial,
distilling, refining, or smelting facility.
1.1.1
26. The Premises shall not be used to operate a building material supplies or home
center or home improvement retail warehouse as such businesses are commonly understood in
the shopping center business, including but not limited to the following uses:
(i) A hardware store or center containing more than 5,000 square feet of useable
floor area.
(ii) An appliance or lighting store or center containing more than 5,000 square
feet of useable floor area.

(iii) A home electronics store or center containing more than 5,000 square feet of
useable floor area.

(iv) A nursery, and/or lawn and garden store or center containing more than 3,000
square feet of useable floor area.

(v) A paint store or center, wallpaper store or center, tile store or center, flooring
store or center, carpeting store, or center and/or home decor store or center containing more than
5,000 square feet of useable floor area;

4 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
(vi) A retail and/or warehouse home improvement center, lumber yard, building
materials supply center, home improvement service center and/or other stores or centers similar
to those operated by Lowe’s, Home Depot, Home Depot Expo, Villagers Hardware, 84 Lumber,
Wickes Lumber, Hughes Lumber, McCoys, Menard's, Sears Hardware, Great Indoors, Scotty's,
Sutherlands, and Orchard Supply.

These restrictions shall also apply to prohibit a larger business having space in its store
devoted to selling the merchandise described in subparagraphs (i) through (vi) when such space
exceeds the limitations of subparagraphs (i) through (vi).

27. [Intentionally omitted].

28. The Premises shall not be used for any entertainment purposes such as a bowling
alley, skating rink, amusement gallery, cinema, billiard parlor/poolroom, health club, massage
parlor, sporting event, sports or game facility, or off-track betting club.

29. The Premises shall not be used for any establishment which sells or displays used
merchandise or secondhand goods.

30. The Premises shall not be used for a restaurant or establishment selling food
prepared on Premises for consumption on or off the Premises located within five hundred (500)
lineal feet of the Dick’s Sporting Goods (Moreover, a restaurant shall not be permitted within
three hundred (300) lineal feet of the Dick’s Sporting Goods unless such restaurant is on an out-
parcel with self-contained parking with at least fifteen (15) parking spaces for so-called standard
size American automobiles, and driveways and footways incidental thereto, for each one
thousand (I ,000) square feet of LFA).

31. The Premises shall not be used for the purposes of retail sales of pet food and
supplies, sales of live tropical fish, small animals, reptiles, and birds, or the daytime grooming of
pets.

32. The Premises shall not be used as a hardware store or center containing more than
5,000 SF; an appliance or lighting store or center containing more than 5,000 sf, a home
electronics store or center containing more than 5,000 sf; a nursery and/or lawn and garden store
containing more than 3,000 sf; a paint store or center; a wallpaper store or center; a tile store or
center and/or a home decor store or center containing more than 5,000 sf; a retail and/or
warehouse home improvement center; a lumber yard; a building materials supply center; a home
improvement service center and/or other stores or centers similar to those operated by Lowe's,
Home Depot, Home Depot Expo, Villagers Hardware, 84 Lumber, Wickes Lumber, Hughes
Lumber, McCoys, Menard's, Sears Hardware, Great Indoors, Scotty's, Sutherlands and Orchard
Supply.

5 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
33. The Premises shall not be used as a marine, fishing, and sporting goods supply
store.

34. The Premises shall not be used as a single price point variety retail store, a variety
retail operation with the word “Dollar” in its trade name, or “Big Lots”.

35. The Premises shall not be used as a music hall.

36. Any use which emits or results in strong, unusual, or offensive odors, fumes, dust,
or vapors, is a public or private nuisance, creates a hazardous condition.

37. The Premises shall not be used as an establishment primarily selling or exhibiting
drug-related paraphernalia.

38. Any unlawful use.

6 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
EXHIBIT G

SUBORDINATION, NON-DISTURBANCE AND
 ATTORNMENT AGREEMENT

This Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement (this “ Agreement”),
dated the             day of                             , 20     , is executed by and among
, Voya Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company f/k/a ING Life Insurance and Annuity
Company, a Connecticut corporation with its principal office at c/o Voya Investment Management
LLC, 5780 Powers Ferry Road, NW, Suite 300, Atlanta, Georgia 30327 (the “ Lender”);
Multnomah County, an Oregon political subdivision, with its principal office at 401 N. Dixon
Street, Portland, Oregon 97227 (the “Tenant”), and Hayden Meadows, a joint venture, an Oregon
general partnership with its  principal office at 919 SW Taylor Street, Suite 700, Portland, OR
97205 (the “Borrower” and/or the “Landlord”).

 RECITALS

WHEREAS, Tenant has entered into a certain Lease dated                         , 20     (the
“Lease”), with Borrower covering certain premises designated as TRADE NAME  (the
“Premises”) in that certain shopping center located at 830 N. Hayden Meadows in the City of
Portland, County of Multnomah, State of Oregon,  and commonly known as Hayden Meadows
Shopping Center and being more particularly described on Exhibit B attached her eto (the
“Property”).

WHEREAS, Borrower has granted a first lien interest in the Property and the Premises to
Lender by delivery of that certain Deed of Trust, Assignment of Leases, Security Agreement and
Fixture Filing dated August 11, 2011 and recorded in the Land Records of Multnomah County,
State of Oregon on August 11, 2011 as/in 2011-089273 (the “Mortgage”) and an Assignment of
Rents and Leases dated August 11, 2011 and recorded in the Land Records of Multnomah County,
State of Oregon on August 11, 2011 as/in 2011-089274 (the “Assignment”).

WHEREAS, Tenant desires to be assured of continued possession of the Premises under
the terms of the Lease and subject to this Agreement and the terms of the Mortgage and the
Assignment.
RECORDING REQUESTED
BY AND WHEN
RECORDED RETURN TO:

____________________, Esq.
____________________
____________________
____________________

7 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of One Dollar ($1.00) by each party in
hand paid to the other, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, and in consideration of the
mutual promises, covenants, and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto, intending to be
legally bound hereby, promise, covenant and agree as follows:

1.   Subordination.  The Lease and all estates, options (including, without limitation, any
purchase options or rights of first refusal to purchase, if any) liens and charges therein contained
or created thereunder is and shall be subject and subordinate to the lien and effect of the Mortgage
and to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions thereof, to the full
extent of the indebtedness secured thereby.

2.  Non-Disturbance.  In the event Lender takes possession of the Property by a foreclosure of
the Mortgage, or takes a deed in lieu of foreclosure, Lender agrees not to affect or disturb Tenant’s
right to possession of the Premises in the exercise of Lender’s  rights so long as Tenant is not in
default under any of the terms, covenants or conditions of the Lease and provided Tenant has not
commenced a voluntary case under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, had an order for relief in an
involuntary case entered against it or taken any action for the purpose of taking advantage of any
law relating to the relief of debtors.

3.  Attornment.  Tenant hereby agrees that in the event of a foreclosure sale or deed in lieu of
foreclosure, Tenant will and hereby does attorn to the foreclosure successor so that the Lease and
the relationship of Landlord and Tenant shall exist between such foreclosure successor and Tenant;
provided, however, that if the foreclosure successor is Lender, its successor or assigns, Lender
shall not be:

a. liable for any act or omission of any prior landlord (including the Borrower); or

b. subject to any offsets or defenses which Tenant might have against any prior landlord
(including the Borrower); Lender acknowledges that its exclusion from liability, offset and
defenses set forth in (a) and (b) above shall not apply to actions or omissions of Lender
from and after the date it becomes the foreclosure successor; or

c. bound by any rent or additional rent which Tenant might have paid for more than the
current month to any prior landlord (including the Borrower); or

d. liable for repayment of any security deposit not actually paid to Lender; or

e. bound by any amendment or modification of the Lease made without Lender’s prior written
consent; or

f. bound by any provision in the Lease which obligates the landlord thereunder (i) to construct
or complete any building or structure or to make any improvements or to perform any other
construction work (including any work necessary to prepare the Premises for Tenant’s
occupancy) or (ii) to pay to Tenant (or permit application against rent due under the Lease

8 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
for) any reimbursement, credit or allowance for construction or build- out performed by
Tenant; or

g. bound by any purchase option or right of first refusal contained in the Lease, if any, with
respect to the Premises or the Property or any part thereof.

Such attornment shall be deemed effective and self -operative without the necessity of executing
any further instrument immediately upon the Lender’s or foreclosure successor’s succession to the
interest of Borrower to the Property.

4. Casualty; Condemnation.  The parties hereto hereby agree that notwithstanding anything
to the contrary contained in the Lease, the applicable terms, covenants and agreements of the
Mortgage shall apply in the event of any casualty to the Premises or the Property or any
condemnation or taking by eminent domain of the Premises or the Property.

5. Consent to Assignment of Lease; Payment of Rents .  Tenant hereby consents to the
Assignment by Borrower to Lender of all of the right, title and interest of Landlord in and to the
Lease pursuant to the Assignment.   Tenant is hereby advised that said Assignment includes,
among other things, the full and complete assignment by Borrower to Lender of all right, power
and privilege of Borrower to direct the party to whom rents and other payments under the Lease
are to be paid, which right to direct payment is unconditional and unrestricted and may be exercised
by Lender at any time, both before and after th e occurrence of any default under the Mortgage.
Pursuant to such right to direct payment, Lender hereby directs Tenant, until further notification
by Lender, to pay all rents and other amounts payable by Tenant under the Lease to Borrower.
Upon request by Lender that Tenant pay all rents and other amounts payable by Tenant under the
Lease directly to Lender or any other person, Tenant thereafter shall make all such payments
directly to Lender or such other person at the address set forth in such request, until further
notification by Lender.  Borrower hereby releases Tenant from liability for any such rent payments
made by Tenant to Lender or such other person pursuant to Lender’s request, and agrees that all
such payments shall be credited to Tenant under  the Lease as if Tenant had made such payments
directly to Landlord.

6. Lender Right to Cure Lease Defaults.  If Borrower defaults under the Lease, Tenant shall
give written notice to Lender specifying the default and specifying the steps necessary to cure the
default, and Lender shall be given the opportunity without undertaking Borrower’s obligations to
cure such default.  Lender shall have thirty (30) days after receipt of such notice to cure such
default or cause it to be cured, if Lender elects to do so; provided, however, that in the event Lender
has begun action to cure the default, but not completed the same within the thirty (30) day period,
the Tenant agrees that Lender shall be permitted such time as is reasonably necessary to complete
curing suc h default; and provided further, however, that if the default is such that it cannot
practically be cured by Lender without taking possession of the Property, Lender shall be permitted
such additional time as necessary to acquire possession of the Property by foreclosure or otherwise,
in order to cure such default.  During such cure period, Tenant shall not terminate the Lease.
Tenant shall also not exercise any other remedy thereunder with respect to such default, except for
any rights Tenant has under the Lease to maintain the Premises in a habitable condition.

9 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses

7. No Assumption by Lender.  Tenant acknowledges and agrees that Lender has not assumed
and does not have any obligation or liability under or pursuant to the Lease by reason of the
Mortgage or th e Assignment until Lender forecloses the Mortgage or accepts a deed -in-lieu of
foreclosure, and then Lender shall be obligated under the Lease subject to the terms of this
Agreement.

8. Tenant Covenants.  Tenant covenants and agrees with Lender that, without the prior written
consent of Lender: (a) Tenant will not pay rent under the Lease more than one calendar month in
advance of the accrual thereof; (b) Tenant will not amend or modify the Lease (except as set forth
in the Lease) or (by agreement with Bor rower) terminate the Lease; (c) Tenant will not assign or
pledge the Lease or its rights or obligations thereunder except as expressly permitted in the Lease
without Landlord’s consent; and (d) no waiver by Borrower of any of the obligations of Tenant
under the Lease, no consent, approval or election made by Borrower in connection with the Lease
and no termination of the Lease by Borrower shall be effective as against Lender.

9. Notices.  Tenant shall mail or transmit copies of all written notices (other than routine
notices transmitted in the ordinary course of business) it may give Borrower with respect to the
Lease to Lender simultaneously with the delivery or mailing of such notices to Borrower.   All
notices or other communications which are required or permitted hereunder to be given to any
party shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficiently given if delivered personally or by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of such party specified below,
or to such other address as the addressee may have specified in a notice duly given to the sender
as provided herein:

If to Lender, to: Voya Retirement Insurance and Annuity Company
c/o Voya Investment Management, LLC
5780 Powers Ferry Road, NW, Suite 300
Atlanta, Georgia 30327-4349
Attention: Mortgage Asset Management

If to Tenant, to: Multnomah County
Facilities and Property Management
401 N. Dixon Street
Portland, Oregon 97227
 Attn: Scott Churchill

If to Borrower, to: Hayden Meadows
       c/o TMT Development Co., LLC
       919 SW Taylor Street, Suite 700
       Portland, OR 97205

10.  Miscellaneous.

10 – EXHIBIT F:  Prohibited/Exclusive Uses
a. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Oregon.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and
all of such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

b. Tenant hereby acknowledges and agrees that (i) any for eclosure successor shall have
the right to assign its rights and obligations under the Lease to any other person to
whom the Property is transferred, and upon such assignment such foreclosure successor
shall have no further obligation or liability under the Lease, and (ii) the obligations of
any foreclosure successor under the Lease shall not be personal obligations of such
foreclosure successor, and recourse on such obligations may be had only against the
right, title and interest of such foreclosure successor in and to the Property.

c. Tenant agrees that, within ten (10) days after receipt of request therefor from Borrower
or Lender, Tenant will execute and deliver to Borrower and Lender a tenant estoppel
certificate stating that, to the best of the Tenan t’s knowledge: (a) that the Lease is in
full force and effect and has not been amended or modified (or stating any such
amendment or modification); (b) Borrower is not in default under the Lease (or if such
default exists specifying such default), and Tena nt has no offsets, defenses or
counterclaims against Borrower (or any prior landlord) under the Lease with respect to
the enforcement of Tenant’s obligations thereunder (or specifying such matters, if they
in fact exist); (c) the date to which the minimum rent and any additional rent or other
charges payable under the Lease have been paid; and (d) that Tenant is not in default
under the Lease (or specifying any such default or event that does exist, and what action
Tenant is taking or proposes to take to cure the same).

d. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto
and their respective successors and assigns.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement under seal as of the
day and year first above written.

         LENDER
         By: Voya Retirement Insurance and Annuity
Company, a Connecticut Company

WITNESS or ATTEST:    its Authorized Agent

_____________________________
         By: _____________________________(SEAL)
Name:
Title:

1 – EXHIBIT G:  SNDA

         BORROWER:

Hayden Meadows, a Joint Venture
an Oregon general partnership

By: Meadows Land Partnership, an Oregon
general partnership, its Managing Partner

By: D Park Corporation, an Oregon
corporation, its Managing Partner

 By: ________________________________
        Vanessa Sturgeon, President & CEO

         Date:

WITNESS or ATTEST:

         TENANT:

WITNESS or ATTEST:   By:  Multnomah County, an Oregon political
          subdivision

____________________________
         By: _______________________________

         Name:   Deborah Kafoury, Chair

2 – EXHIBIT G:  SNDA
 EXHIBIT A

 DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPERTY

DELTA MEADOWS, BLOCK 2, LOT 7

1 – EXHIBIT H:  Rules and Regulations
EXHIBIT H
DELTA PARK CENTER
Rules and Regulations
1.  The rights of each tenant in the common areas of the Premises and/or Center  are
limited to ingress to and egress from such tenant’s premises for the tenant and its employees,
licensees and invitees, and no tenant shall use, or permit the use of the common areas for any other
purpose.  No tenant shall invite to the tenant’s premises, or permit the visit of, persons in such
numbers or under such conditions as to interfere with the use and enjoyment of any of the facilities
of the Premises by any other tenants.  No tenant shall encumber or obstruct or permit the
encumbrance or obstruction of any of the common areas of the Premises and/or Center.  Landlord
reserves the right to control and operate the public portions of the Premises and the public facilities
as well as facilities furnished for the common use of the tenants, in such manner as it in its
reasonable judgment deems best for the benefit of the tenants generally.
2. Admission to the Premises in certain  areas and during certain hours may be
restricted by Landlord by means of access devices such as keys, entry cards, combination codes
and the like.  Landlord may require all persons admitted to or leaving the Premises outside of
business hours on busine ss days to provide appropriate identification, use a designated access
device and to comply with all other Premises security requirements. Each tenant shall be
responsible for all persons to whom it issues an access device or discloses an access code and shall
be liable to Landlord for all acts or omissions of such persons.  Any person whose presence in the
Premises at any time shall, in the judgment of Landlord, be prejudicial to the safety, character or
reputation of the Building or of its tenants may be denied access to the Building or may be ejected
therefrom.  During any invasion, riot, public excitement or other commotion, Landlord may
prevent all access to the Premises by closing the doors or otherwise for the safety of the tenants
and protection of property in the Building.  Each tenant shall pay Landlord a refundable deposit in
an amount determined by Landlord from time to time for each access device issued to a tenant.
3. Smoking and vaping are prohibited at all times in all common areas of the Premises
and/or Center.
4. No tenant shall obtain or accept for use in its premises cleaning or other similar
services from any persons reasonably prohibited in writing from furnishing such services.
5. The cost of repairing any damage to the public port ions of the Premises, the
common areas or the public facilities or to any facilities used in common with other tenants, caused
by a tenant or its employees, agents, contractors, licensees or invitees, shall be paid by such tenant.
6. No tenant shall attach awnings or other projections to the outside walls of the
Premises.  No curtains, blinds, shades or screens, if any, which are different from the standards
adopted by Landlord for the Premises shall be attached to or hung in or used in connection with
any exterior window or door of the premises of any tenant without the prior written consent of
Landlord.  All tenants with premises visible from any public portion of the Premises, shall furnish
and maintain the Premises in a first- class manner, utilizing furnishings and other decorations

2 – EXHIBIT H:  Rules and Regulations
commensurate in quality and style with the furnishings and decor in the public portions of the
Premises.
7. No lettering, sign advertisement, notice or object shall be displayed in or on the
exterior windows or doors, on t he outside of any tenant’s premises, or at any point inside any
tenant’s premises where the same might be visible outside of such premises, without the prior
written consent of Landlord.  In the event of the violation of the foregoing by any tenant, Landlord
may remove the same without any liability, and may charge the expense incurred in such removal
to the tenant violating this rule.  Interior signs and lettering on doors shall, if and when approved
by Landlord, be inscribed, painted or affixed for e ach tenant by Landlord at the expense of such
tenant and shall be of a size, color and style acceptable to Landlord.
8. The windows that reflect or admit light and air into the common areas of the
Premises shall not be covered or obstructed by any tenant, n or shall any bottles, parcels or other
articles be placed on the windowsills.
9. No showcases or other articles shall be put in front of or affixed to any part of the
exterior of the Premises nor placed in the halls, corridors or vestibules.
10. No bicycles, ve hicles, animals, fish or birds of any kind shall be brought into or
kept in or about the premises of any tenant or the Premises except in areas designated by Landlord.
11. No noise, including, but not limited to, music or the playing of musical instruments,
recordings, radio or television, which in the judgment of Landlord, might disturb other tenants in
the Premises and/or Center, shall be made or permitted by any tenant.  Nothing shall be done or
permitted in the premises of any tenant which would impair or interfere with the use or enjoyment
by any other tenant of any other space in the Premises and/or Center.
12. No tenant, nor any tenant’s contractors, employees, agents, visitors or licensees,
shall at any time bring into or keep upon the premises or the Premises and/or Center any
inflammable, combustible, explosive or otherwise dangerous fluid, chemical or substance.
13. Each tenant shall, upon the termination of its tenancy, turn over to Landlord all keys
of stores, offices and toilet rooms, either furnished to, or otherwise procured by, such tenant, and
in the event of the loss of any keys furnished by Landlord, such tenant shall pay to Landlord the
cost thereof.
14. All removals, or the carrying in or out of any safes, freight, furniture, packages,
boxes, crates, trash and rubbish, or any other object or matter of any description must take place
during such hours and in such areas, and in such manner as Landlord or its agent may reasonably
determine from time to time.  The person employed to move safes  and other heavy objects shall
be reasonably acceptable to Landlord and, if so, required by law, shall hold a Master Rigger’s or
comparable license.  Arrangements will be made by Landlord with any tenant for moving large
quantities of furniture and equipment into or out of the Premises.  All labor and engineering costs
incurred by Landlord in connection with any moving specified in this rule, including a reasonable
charge for overhead and profit, shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord, on demand.

3 – EXHIBIT H:  Rules and Regulations
15. Landlord reserves the right to inspect all objects and matter to be brought into the
Premises and to exclude from the Premises all objects and matter which violate any of these Rules
and Regulations or the Lease of which this Exhibit is a part.  Landlord may r equire any person
leaving the Premises with any package or other object or matter to submit a pass listing such
package or object or matter from the tenant from whose premises the package or object or matter
is being removed, but the establishment and enlargement of such requirement shall not impose any
responsibility on Landlord for the protection of any tenant against the removal of property from
the premises of such tenant.  Landlord shall in no way be liable to any tenant for damages or loss
arising from the admission, exclusion or ejection of any person to or from the Premises under the
provisions of this Rule or of Rule 2 hereof.
16. No tenant shall occupy or permit any portion of its premises to be occupied as an
office for secretarial or word proc essing services, except for secretarial and word processing
services that are ancillary to the tenant’s primary use, without the prior written consent of
Landlord.  No tenant shall use its premises or any part thereof for the possession, storage,
manufacture, or sale of liquor, narcotics, drugs, tobacco in any form, or as a barber, beauty or
manicure shop, or as a school (excluding employee training incidental to the Use of Premises set
forth in the Basic Lease Information).
17. Landlord shall have the right to prohibit any advertising which mentions the
Premises and/or Center.
18. Landlord shall have the right to reasonably prescribe the weight and position of
safes and other objects of excessive weight, and no safe or other object whose weight exceeds the
lawful load for the area upon which it would stand shall be brought into or kept upon any tenant’s
premises.  If, in the reasonable judgment of Landlord, it is necessary to distribute the concentrated
weight of any heavy object, the work involved in such distribution shall be done at the expense of
the tenant and in such manner as Landlord shall determine.
19. No machinery or mechanical equipment other than ordinary portable business
machines may be installed or operated in any tenant’s premises without Landl ord’s prior written
consent which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and in no case (even where
the same are of a type so excepted or as so consented to by Landlord) shall any machines or
mechanical equipment be so placed or operated  as to disturb other tenants, but machines and
mechanical equipment which may be permitted to be installed and used in a tenant’s premises shall
be so equipped, installed and maintained by such tenant as to prevent any disturbing noise,
vibration or electrical or other interference from being transmitted from such premises to any other
area of the Premises and/or Center.
20. Landlord, its contractors, and their respective employees, shall have the right to
use, without charge therefor, all light, power and water in the premises of any tenant while cleaning
or making repairs or alterations in the premises of such tenant.
21. No premises of any tenant shall be used for lodging or sleeping or for any immoral
or illegal purpose.

4 – EXHIBIT H:  Rules and Regulations
22. The requirements of tenants will be attended to only upon application at the office
of the Center.  Employees of Landlord shall not perform any work or do anything outside of the
regular duties, unless under special instructions from Landlord.
23. Canvassing, soliciting and peddling in the  Premises and/or Center are prohibited,
and each tenant shall cooperate to prevent the same.
24. No tenant shall cause or permit any unusual or objectionable odors to emanate from
its premises which would annoy other tenants or create a public nuisance.  N o cooking shall be
done in the premises of any tenant except as is expressly permitted in such tenant’s Lease.
25. Nothing shall be done or permitted in any tenant’s premises, and nothing shall be
brought into or kept in any tenant’s premises, which would im pair or interfere with any of the
Center’s services or the proper and economic heating, cleaning or other servicing of the Center or
the premises, of the use or enjoyment by any other tenant of any other premises, nor shall there be
installed by any tenant any ventilating, air conditioning, electrical or other equipment of any kind
which, in the reasonable judgment of Landlord, would cause any such impairment or interference.
26. No acids, vapors or other materials shall be discharged or permitted to be
discharged into the waste lines, vents or flues of the Premises and/or Center which may damage
them.  The water and wash closets and other plumbing fixtures in or serving any tenant’s premises
shall not be used for any purpose other than the purposes for which they were designed or
constructed, and no sweepings, rubbish, rags, acids or other foreign substances shall be deposited
therein.  All damages resulting from any misuse of the fixtures shall be borne by the tenants who,
or whose servants, employees , agents, visitors or licensees shall have caused the same.  Any
cuspidors, containers, or receptacles used as such in the premises of any tenant or for garbage or
similar refuse, shall be emptied, cared for and cleaned by and at the expense of such tenant.
27. All entrance doors in each tenant’s premises shall be left locked and all windows
shall be left closed by the tenant when the tenant’s premises are not in use.
28. Landlord reserves the right to rescind, alter or waive any rule or regulation at any
time prescribed for the Premises and/or Center when, in its reasonable judgment, it deems it
necessary, desirable or proper for its best interest and for the best interests of the tenants generally,
and no alteration or waiver of any rule or regulation i n favor of one tenant shall operate as an
alteration or waiver in favor of any other tenant.  Landlord shall not be responsible to any tenant
for the nonobservance or violation by any other tenant of any of the rules and regulations at any
time prescribed for the Premises and/or Center.

1 – EXHIBIT I:  Statement of Tenant In Re:  Lease
EXHIBIT I
TENANT CERTIFICATE AND AGREEMENT

TO: Voya Investment Management LLC (“VIM”) and to the life insurance company affiliate or
affiliates of VIM which are making the loan secured by the “Mortgage,” defined below
(“Lender”) having a mailing address of c/o Voya Investment Management LLC, 5780
Powers Ferry Road, NW , Suite 300, Atlanta, Georgia 30327- 4349, Attn: Mortgage Loan
Servicing Department, together with any participants, successors and/or assigns of the
foregoing.

THIS IS TO CERTIFY THAT:

The undersigned has been advised that Lender made a loan secured by a  first mortgage,
deed of trust or deed to secure debt, security agreement and assignment of rents and leases (the
"Mortgage") on those certain premises commonly known as                                                (the
"Premises"), in which the undersigned currently occupies approximately           square feet of space
under a __________________________________ dated                , 20___ (the "Lease") between
the undersigned (" Tenant") and                                                                            ,
a                               ("Landlord").  At Lender's request, Tenant hereby certifies as follows:

1. Tenant is the holder of the lessee's interest under the Lease and is in sole possession of the
Premises.  Tenant has not subleased all or any part of the Premises or assigned the Lease
or otherwise transferred its interest in the Lease.

2. The Lease, is in full force and effect, constitutes the entire agreement between Landlord
and Tenant , and has not been modified, changed, altered, amended or supplemented in any
respect (except as may be indicated at the end of this Paragraph 2) and is the only lease or
agreement between Tenant and Landlord affecting said Premises.  Tenant will not enter
into any material modification of the Lease without the prior written consent of Lender.
__________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________

3. The Tenant has accepted and now occupies the Premises and is and has been open for
business in the Premises since                              , 19   /20__.  The conduct of such business
falls within the uses stipulated in the Lease.  The Lease term commenced on
, 19   /20__ and is currently scheduled to expire on                    .  If there are any rights of
extension or renewal remaining under the terms of the Lease, the same have not, as of the
date of this Tenant Estoppel Certificate, been exercised.

4. Tenant has made no agreements with Landlord or its agents or employees concerning, and
has no right to, free rent, partial rent, rebate of rental payments or any other type of rental
concession (except as may be indicated at the end of this Paragraph 4).  If none, state
"none."                                                                                                      .

5. Tenant is current in payment of all fixed rent and other charges due to be paid under the

2 – EXHIBIT I:  Statement of Tenant In Re:  Lease
Lease, with minimum rent paid in full for the period ending                  .   The monthly
minimum (i.e. fixed) rent is $                 .  No rent or other sum payable under the Lease is
being paid in arrears.  No rent or other sum payable under the Lease has been paid in
advance of the due date thereof, and Tenant hereby agrees with Lender that it shall not pay
any minimum rent or any other sum due or to be paid under the Lease more than thirty (30)
days in advance of the due date thereof.  A security deposit of $________________ has
been paid to the Borrower as Landlord under the Lease.

6. All of the obligations on the part of Landlord under the Lease to construct and deliver the
Premises and any common areas including parking have been satisfactorily performed by
Landlord and all obligations for the performance of any construct ion, work or installation
of any equipment, have been carried out.  Tenant has no claim or knowledge of any claim
against the holder of Landlord's interest on account of any default or failure of performance
under the Lease.  As of the date hereof, Tenant is entitled to no offset or deduction in rent
and has no claim or defense to the payment of any obligation under the Lease.

7. Any and all concessions payments, credits, allowances or abatements for tenant
improvement work due Tenant under the Lease has been paid by the Landlord or received
by Tenant except as follows: If none, state "none."
_________________________________________________
     ____                                                                                                                                        .

8. No notice of default under the Lease has been given by Tenant to Landlord; no notice of
default has been received by Tenant from Landlord; and, to the best of Tenant's knowledge,
information and belief, (a) no condition exists which might give rise to a default under the
Lease, and (b) no claim of any nature exists by Tenant under the Lease against Landlord
or the Premises.

9. Neither Tenant nor, to the best knowledge of Tenant, Landlord is in violation of any
exclusive use, radius or non-competition clause in the Lease or in any Lease of any space
in the Property.

10. The Lease contains and Tenant has no outstanding options or rights of first refusal to
purchase the Premises demised by the Lease or any part thereof or the real propert y of
which such premises are a part.

11. No actions, whether voluntary or otherwise, are pending against Tenant under the
bankruptcy or other insolvency laws of the United States or of any state thereof.

12. This Lease is, and at all times shall be, subordinate to the Mortgage (as the same may be
modified, amended, consolidated, supplemented, increased, renewed, extended, and/or
replaced).

13. Tenant agrees that in the event of a default by Landlord under the Lease, Tenant shall
provide Lender with thirty (30) days notice and right (but not the obligation) to cure
provided; however, that if Lender elects to cure and such cure cannot be completed within

3 – EXHIBIT I:  Statement of Tenant In Re:  Lease
said thirty (30) day period and Lender has diligently commenced such cure, Lender shall
have a reasonable time thereafter to cure.

14. This certification is made knowing that Lender shall rely upon the truth of this certificate.
This certificate may also be relied upon by Landlord and Landlord's counsel, Lender's
counsel and any title company and/or title agent issuing title insurance with respect to the
Mortgage.

Dated effective as of the          day of                                    , 20   .

TENANT:

By:

 Printed Name:

Title:

1 – EXHIBIT J:  Option Addendum
EXHIBIT J
Option Addendum
This Exhibit is an integral part of the Lease.  In the event of any conflict between the terms
of this Exhibit and the terms of the Lease, the terms of this Exhibit shall control.
1. Option to Renew.
(a) Grant of Option.  Landlord hereby grants to Tenant the option to renew this
Lease for one (1) successive additional term (a “Renewal Term”) of one (1) year.  If this option is
exercised, references in the Lease to the Lease Term shall include the Renewal Term.
(b) Exercise.  Tenant must exercise the option to renew, if at all, by giving
Landlord written notice of such exercise not less than nine  (9) months prior to expiration of the
then current Term.  Upon exercise of the option to renew, the Lease Term shall be extended
through the expiration date of the applicable Renewal Term on the same terms and conditions as
contained herein, except that (i) there shall be no further right to renew the Lease Term beyond the
one (1) Renewal Term, and (ii) Base Rent during each Renewal Term shall be the fair market rental
value of the Premises determined pursuant to this Section, but in no event less than the previous
year’s Base Rent.  Fair market rental value will be determined by reference to comparable space
in the market in which the Premises are located, taking into account all relevant factors.
(c) Renewal Term Base Rent .  Base Rent for any Renewal Term shall be
established by agreement of the parties or, if they cannot agree by 120 days prior to the
commencement date of the Renewal Term, then Base Rent for the Renewal Term shall be the fair
market rental value of the Premises established pursuant to the terms of this Section.  If the parties
are not able to agree upon the then fair market rental value of the Premises on or before the 120th
day prior to the commencement of the Renewal Term, then not later than the 90th day prior to the
commencement of th e Renewal Term, each party shall submit to the other a written final offer
setting forth the then fair market rental value of the Premises.  The written notice of the fair market
rental value shall also be accompanied by a list of three qualified MAI appraisers, experienced in
determining fair market rental values of similar commercial properties in the market  where the
Premises are located.  Each party shall have the right to strike one candidate from the list submitted
by the other party.  The resulting four names shall then be placed in a vessel and one MAI appraiser
shall be selected at random.  The MAI appraiser so selected (the “Appraiser”) need not necessarily
conduct an appraisal, but rather shall, using whatever means (including an appraisal) the Appraiser
deems reasonable, select, as between the two final offers submitted by the parties, that final offer
that sets forth a fair market rental value that is closest to the actual fair market rental value as the
same may be determined by the Appraiser using whatever means (including an appraisal) the
Appraiser deems reasonable.  The decision of the Appraiser shall be final and binding on the parties
and shall be used to establish the Base Rent for the Renewal Term.  The cost of the Appraise r’s
fee shall be paid by the party whose final offer was not selected by the Appraiser as the then fair
market rental value.
(d) Rights Personal.  The option to renew is personal to the original Tenant
named herein and may not be exercised by any sublessee or assignee. The option to renew shall

2 – EXHIBIT J:  Option Addendum
be effective only if (i)  Tenant has not sublet any portion of the Premises and if Tenant is then
actually occupying all of the Premises, (ii) all guaranties previously executed are in full force and
effect, and (iii) no event of default has occurred under this Lease, nor has any event occurred that,
with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute an event of default
hereunder, either at the time of exercise of the option or the time of commencement of the Renewal
Term; provided if Tenant exercises the option and a subsequent event of default occurs, the
damages to which Landlord is entitled will include damages related to the Renewal Term.
(e) Amendment to Lease.  If Tenant ex ercises the option to renew this Lease,
Landlord and Tenant shall execute and deliver an amendment to this Lease setting forth such fact
and the amount of Base Rent for the Renewal Term.