BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON  PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-091  Proclaiming Native American Heritage Month 2023 and a Commitment to Strengthening Collaboration with Native American Employees to explore County policies, procedures and common practices to address inequities or barriers they face.   The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:  A. In recognition of Native American Heritage Month, Multnomah County honors and celebrates the many contributions made by the Native American peoples throughout our community and organization.   B. While 63 tribes were victims of termination of trust relations in Oregon alone during the 1950s, the highest number in the Country, only 9 were restored.   C. Today, more than 380 tribal communities are represented throughout Multnomah County, shaping our region with their invaluable contributions, passing down strong cultural practices, knowledge and values rooted in tradition and community. Many of whom work throughout the County’s departments and programs, furthering our organization's mission daily.   D. This month brings an opportunity to educate the public about our shared history of how attempted erasure devastated Indian Country and those deliberate acts can still be felt today through oppressive policies and practices woven throughout our governmental systems, including Multnomah County.  E. Tribal communities face unique political and equity issues that the County’s Native staff members carry with them into the workplace every day. The Board of County Commissioners is committed to engaging our Native employees and identifying and addressing systemic barriers.   F. Multnomah County is committed to working together in a spirit of mutual recognition, respect and reconciliation towards strengthened relationships and services in partnership with tribal communities and our employees.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. To strengthen collaboration with Native employees in the County’s efforts to identify
priorities over the next year, including inviting members of the newly established Native
Employee Resource Group, relative County offices, and departments to be involve d in
the process where there’s alignment.
2. To support the Chair's exploration of County policies, procedures and common practices
to address inequities or barriers for our Native employees.
ADOPTED this 16th day of November, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
    Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY: Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair