Page 1 - Approving an E xception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands), and an
Amendment to the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  and the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map , to Rezone the P roperty locate d in
East R ural Multnomah County at 2326 SE Troutdale Road and that portion of SE
Troutdale Road adjacent to the subject property  extending to the r oad center line
from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential (RR)
BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDER NO.  2020-086
Approving an Exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands), and an Amendment
to the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  and the Multnomah County Comprehensive
Plan and Zoning Map , to Rezone the Property locate d in East R ural Multnomah County at
2326 SE Troutdale Road  and that portion of SE Troutdale Road adjacent to the subject
property extending to the road center line  from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential
(RR).
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. On July 6, 2020 , the Multnomah County Planning Commission considered a n
application for an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3, and an amendment to the
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  and Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan
and Zoning Map (“Map”), to rezone the property located in east rural Multnomah County
at 2326 SE Troutdale Road  (“subject property”) and that portion of SE Troutdale Road
adjacent to the subject property  from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential
(RR) (application T4-2019-12624).
b. Before and at the July 6 , 20 20 hearing, there was an opportunity for the public to
provide written and oral testimony. In addition to the applicant, one other person offered
public testimony and that testimony was in favor of the proposal.
c. After deliberation, the Planning Comm ission adopted Order No. T4 -2019-12624
(attached hereto as Exhibit 4) , which recommends that the Board of County
Commissioners adopt the findings of fact and statement of reasons contained in  the T4-
2019-12624 staff report  attached hereto as ‘Exhibit 1’, approve the goal exceptio n
request subject to the conditions in that staff report, and amend the Multnomah County
Comprehensive Plan to document and incorporate the exception and zone change.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Orders:
1. The findings of fact and statement of reasons contained in the T4 -2019-12624 staff
report, attached hereto as Exhibit 1 , are adopt ed by the Board of County
Commissioners and demonstrate that the standards for an excepti on to Statewide
Planning Goal 3 have been met.
2. The excepti on to Statewide Planning Goal 3  requested through T4 -2019-12624 is
approved, effective on the date that this Order is signed, subject to the conditions stated
in the T4-2019-12624 staff report (Exhibit 1).
Page 2 - Approving an E xception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands), and an
Amendment to the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan  and the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map , to Rezone the P roperty locate d in
East R ural Multnomah County at 2326 SE Troutdale Road and that portion of SE
Troutdale Road adjacent to the subject property  extending to the r oad center line
from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential (RR)
3. The property located in east rural Multnomah County at 2326 SE Troutdale Road
(“subject property”)  and that portion of SE Troutdale Road adjacent to the subject
property extending to the road center line  is rezoned from Exclusive Farm Use to Rural
Residential.
4. The Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map (Appendix A to the
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan) , and related maps in the Comprehensive
Plan, are amended as provided in the attached Exhibit 2.
5. The text of the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan is amended as provided in the
attached Exhibit 3 to document and incorporate the approved goal exception and zone
change, including the findings of facts and statement of reasons adopted by the Board
that demonstrate that the standards for an exception have been met.
6. The Planning Director  is delegated the authority to take all administrative acts
necessary to codify the Board’s order, including amending the Multnomah County
Comprehensive Plan and Map to reflect the Board’s order.
ADOPTED this 1st day of October, 2020.
SUBMITTED BY:
Jamie Waltz, Interim Director, Department of Community Services
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By K�ce ��---
Katherine Thomas, Assistant County Attorney
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 1 of 43
1600 SE 190th Ave, Portland OR 97233-5910 • PH. (503) 988-3043 • Fax (503) 988-3389
Staff Report
Case
 File T4-2019-12624
Hearing Date
&Time
Monday, July 6, 2020, at 6:30 p.m. or soon thereafter.
The Planning Commission meeting will be held virtually.
Instructions for participating in the meeting online, or by phone will be published
prior to the meeting on the county Planning Commission webpage:
https://multco.us/landuse/planning-commission
Proposal The Staff Report evaluates a request for an exception to statewide planning Goal 3
(Agricultural Lands), and a Quasi-Judicial Comprehensive Plan Amendment, to
authorize a zone change from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential (RR)
on a 0.93 acre property at 2326 SE Troutdale Road in east rural Multnomah County.
The subject property is the site of the former Cedar School, originally established in
1857 and replaced in 1927 with a school building that remains on the site today.
Location 2326 SE Troutdale Road; Troutdale, OR 97060
Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Section 01C, Tax Lot 01200, WM.
Property ID: R337210
Alternate Account Number: R993010130
Owner Colleen Cahill
Applicant Rich Faith
Base Zone
(Current)
Exclusive Farm Use (EFU)
Overlays None
Department of Community Services
Land Use Planning Division
www.multco.us/landuse
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 2 of 43
Vicinity Maps

Applicable Approval Criteria:

Multnomah County Code (MCC):

39.1000 – 39.1245: Administration, Procedures, Enforcement, Permits and Fees
39.1205: Type IV Quasi-Judicial Plan and Zone Change Approval Criteria

Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan:

Policies 2.5 through 2.9: Rural Residential zoning policies
Policies 3.6 through 3.9: Exclusive Farm Use zoning policies
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 3 of 43
Policy 6.1: Historic Resources policy and strategies

Multnomah County Transportation:
Multnomah County Road Rules (MCRR):
4.000: Access to County Roads
6.000: Improvement Requirements
9.000: Compliance Method
18.000: Right-of-Way Use Permits
16.000: Variance from County Standards and Requirements
Multnomah County Design and Construction Manual (MCDCM):
1.2: Access Management Standards

Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS):
ORS 197.732: Goal Exceptions

Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR):
OAR 660-004-0025: Exception Requirements for Land Physically Developed to Other Uses
OAR 660-004-0028: Exception Requirements for Land Irrevocably Committed to Other Uses

Recommended Decision:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval of the Goal 3 Exception and zone
change to the Board of County Commissioners, including adopting the text revisions to the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan and the changes to the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan and Zoning
Map outlined in Section 7.0 of this report.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 4 of 43
Recommended Conditions of Approval:
If the Planning Commission recommends approval, staff recommends including the following Conditions
of Approval in the Planning Commission’s recommendation:

1. Access/Driveway:
A. Driveway will need to be permitted with Multnomah County (MCRR 4.000). Driveway permit
application can be found here:
B. Driveway will need to meet standards for this type of use and location (MCDCM 1.2.4, 1.2.5):
(1) Rural Collector Driveway spacing is 100'. Driveway spacing is defined as the distance
between driveway centerlines. the minimums apply both driveways on the same side of the
street as well as driveways on opposite sides of the street.
(2) Single family residential driveway width must be between 12 and 25 feet.
C. New driveways must be paved - this is part of the permitting process (MCRR 6.100 and 9.400).
Driveways are considered new, reconstructed, or reconfigured when they result in a transportation
impact, are altered physically, or there are no records of an existing driveway
2. Right of way dedication/Deed Restriction:
A. Right of way dedication will be required (MCRR 6.100). It appears that the Right of way at this
location is 55 feet. The preferred right of way width for a rural collector is 60 feet, therefore the
right of way width should be 30 feet from centerline. It appears that a 5 foot dedication will be
necessary to bring the width up to this standard.
B. Deed restrictions will also be necessary (MCRR 6.100 and 9.400). A non-remonstrance
agreement, or deed restriction, will require that the property participate in standard Rural Collector
road improvements along the site’s frontage that are not completed as a part of the site’s required
interim improvements.

Table of Contents:
Section Contents Pages
Section 1.00 Summary of Proposal  5 - 6
Section 2.00 Summary of Statewide Land Use Planning Goals and Exceptions Process 6 - 7
Section 3.00 Goal Exception Standards  7 - 22
Section 4.00 County Type 4 Quasi-Judicial Plan and Zone Change Criteria 22 - 28
Section 5.00 Comprehensive Plan Policies 23 - 39
Section 6.00 Summary of Public Comments 39
Section 7.00 Recommended Comprehensive Amendment 39 - 40
Section 8.00 Conclusion  40
Section 9.00 Exhibits 40 - 43

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 5 of 43
Findings of Fact

FINDINGS: Written findings are contained herein. The Multnomah County Code (MCC) standards,
Comprehensive Plan Policies, Rules and Statutes are in bold font. Applicant’s responses submitted in the
application have been italicized and are identified as ‘Applicant Response.’ Staff analysis and comments
are identified as ‘Staff Finding:’ and address the applicable standards. The notation (* * *) indicates a
gap where non-applicable rules, statutes or codes have been skipped to reduce staff report length and
improve readability.

1.00 Summary of Proposal

This land use application seeks to change the zoning of a property from Exclusive Farm Use (“EFU”) to
Rural Residential (“RR”). The current owner of the property (“owner”) seeks this change as the first step
in the process of obtaining the necessary land use approvals for use of a former school building as a
single-family dwelling and photography studio.

The 0.93 acre (approximately 40,511 square foot) property at issue in this application is located at 2326
SE Troutdale Road in east rural Multnomah County (“subject property”), approximately 475 feet as the
crow flies from the southern limits of the City of Troutdale (Exhibit Map B.19). The proposed zone
change includes the entire 0.93 acre property and if approved, the RR zone would also extend to include
that portion of SE Troutdale Road adjacent to the subject property extending to the road center line.

The subject property is the site of a building built in 1927 that formerly was used as the Cedar School
(Exhibit A.1.3). The owner currently is using the former school building as a single-family dwelling and
photography studio (Exhibit A.1.1). The owner does not have land use or building permits for the single-
family dwelling or photography studio uses.

The subject property currently is zoned Exclusive Farm Use (“EFU”). Properties zoned EFU generally are
eligible for a single-family dwelling only if the dwelling will be used in conjunction with farm use,
consistent with the purpose of the EFU zone to “preserve and maintain agricultural lands for farm use.”
See MCC 39.4200 (purpose of EFU); MCC 39.4220(J) (allowing replacement dwelling in conjunction
with farm use); MCC 39.4225(B), (C), (D) (other types of dwellings allowed and tied to farm use). The
owner of the subject property does not farm or intend to farm the property, and there is no evidence that
the property was farmed at any point after the school located on the property. (Exhibit A.1.3, page 2).
Moreover, although exceptions exist to allow dwellings for other purposes in the EFU, none of those
exceptions are applicable to the owner’s current use.

As a result, as the first step to getting the necessary land use and building permits for the single-family
dwelling and photography studio, the owner has requested an exception to statewide planning Goal 3
(Agricultural Lands), and a Comprehensive Plan Amendment, to authorize a zone change from EFU to
Rural Residential (RR). One purpose of the RR zone is to “to provide areas for residential use for those
persons who desire rural living environments.” MCC 39.4350. In the RR zone, “[r]esidential use
consisting of a single family dwelling on a Lot of Record” is an allowed use.  MCC 39.4360(A).

Although the property is currently entirely within the EFU zone, and is adjacent to farmland to the north,
east, and south that also is within the EFU zone, properties located across SE Troutdale Road to the west
are zoned RR.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 6 of 43
No new development is proposed on the subject property at this time and, if approved, a zone change, in
itself, does not authorize development. Therefore, this staff report does not make findings regarding the
Lot of Record status nor provide findings regarding compliance of existing uses and structures on the
subject property. Both of these assessments will be completed as part of any future development request
as required by Multnomah County Code (MCC) 39.3005, 39.3070 or 39.3090, and 39.1515.

In addition, the current application does not seek land use or building permit approval for the single-
family dwelling or photography studio uses. If this application is approved, the owner can seek those
approvals through separate land use processes.

The current process for a zone change from EFU to RR requires approval of a “goal exception,” a process
explained more fully below, which includes an amendment to Multnomah County’s Comprehensive Plan
and Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map. The statutory nature of a goal exception assessment requires
cross references to Oregon Administrative Rules, Oregon Revised Statutes, county code and county
Comprehensive Plan policies, which can make a staff report difficult to read. Therefore, this report below
has been broken into discrete sections, with notations provided under certain findings to help direct the
reader to the report section containing the relevant findings when a regulatory cross reference occurs.

2.00 Summary of Statewide Land Use Planning Goals and Exceptions Process

Oregon land use rules are established at the highest level within Oregon’s 19 Statewide Planning Goals
(“goals”) (Oregon Administrative Rule, OAR 660-015-0000 to OAR 660-015-0010). These 19 goals
express statewide policy on a range of land use topics, such as citizen involvement, protection of air and
water quality, protection of farm and forestland, and urbanization. These policies are codified as law
within various sections of the Oregon Administrative Rules (“OAR”) and Oregon Revised Statutes
(“ORS”). Local county and city comprehensive plans and development regulations must be consistent
with these the applicable goals, rules and statutes.

Some of the goals require the County’s Comprehensive Plan to restrict the use or development of
different types of resource lands, such as Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands) and Goal 4 (Forest Lands). When
the County wants to adopt a property-specific comprehensive plan amendment that is inconsistent with a
goal requirement, it must seek an “exception” to the goal requirement. For example, Goal 3 provides that
“[a]gricultural lands shall be preserved and maintained for farm use[.]” As a result, when a property
owner proposes to use agricultural lands zoned EFU for a use that cannot comply with the EFU approval
standards for that kind of use, an exception is required before that use can occur on the property.

The purpose of the goal exception process is to excuse a proposed action from strict compliance with the
specific language of the statewide planning goals or exclude certain land from the requirements of a goal
in order to permit necessary flexibility where justifiable. See OAR 660-004-0000(3). There are three
different types of goal exceptions, often referred to as (1) physically developed, (2) irrevocably
committed, and (3) reasons exceptions. See ORS 197.732(2)(a); OAR 660-015-0000(2). The applicant has
sought to justify the exception for the subject property under the physically developed and irrevocably
committed exception standards.

A local government in Oregon, such as Multnomah County, must make findings that each applicable goal
exception standard is met and also must document the exception within the local comprehensive plan to
authorize a goal exception request. This documentation requires an amendment to the Multnomah County
Comprehensive Plan, which occurs through a Type IV quasi-judicial action considered by the Multnomah
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 7 of 43
County Planning Commission and ultimately may be decided by the Multnomah County Board of
Commissioners (MCC 39.1105(D)).

This staff report has been drafted to provide the required findings of fact to the Multnomah County
Planning Commission. If the Planning Commission denies the application, the Planning Commission
decision will be the final decision of the County, unless appealed to the Board of County Commissioners.
If a Planning Commission denial is appealed, or if the Planning Commission recommends approval of the
application, the Board of County Commissioners will render the County’s final decision on this
application.

3.00 Goal Exception Standards

3.01 OAR 660-015-0000(3) – Goal 3: Agricultural Lands (Language below taken from Oregon’s
Statewide Planning Goals & Guidelines, Goal 3: Agricultural Lands -
https://www.oregon.gov/lcd/OP/Documents/goal3.pdf)

To preserve and maintain agricultural lands.

  Agricultural lands shall be preserved and maintained for farm use, consistent with
existing and future needs for agricultural products, forest and open space and with the
state's agricultural land use policy expressed in ORS 215.243 and 215.700.

* * *

IMPLEMENTATION

  Zoning applied to agricultural land shall limit uses which can have significant
adverse effects on agricultural and forest land, farm and forest uses or accepted farming
or forest practices.
  Counties shall establish minimum sizes for new lots or parcels in each agricultural
land designation. The minimum parcel size established for farm uses in farmland zones
shall be consistent with applicable statutes. If a county proposes a minimum lot or parcel
size less than 80 acres, or 160 acres for rangeland, the minimum shall be appropriate to
maintain the existing commercial agricultural enterprise within the area and meet the
requirements of ORS 215.243.

* * *

Staff Finding: OAR 660-015-0000(3), in part, establishes the requirement for counties to zone
agricultural lands EFU, and also requires zoning applied to these lands to limit uses which can
have significant adverse effects on farm land and farming practices. Examples of implementing
EFU provisions in Multnomah County include an 80-acre minimum lot size for new parcels
(MCC 39.4245(A) and farming income requirements for establishing a new dwelling (MCC
39.4265(B)). OAR 660-015-0000(3), otherwise referred to as “Goal 3,” is applicable to the
subject property because the subject property is zoned for agricultural use through the EFU
zone. Goal 3 is the statewide requirement the applicant has requested an exception from because
the owner is not using the property for agricultural use and cannot comply with the approval
standards in the EFU for the current uses on the property. See ORS 197.732(3)(a).

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 8 of 43
3.02 GOAL EXCEPTIONS

Staff Finding: The following exception provisions are articulated both in ORS 197.732 and
OAR 660-015-0000(2) – Land Use Planning. Staff will make findings under ORS 197.732 as
required by MCC 39.1205(A)(1), which provides that an applicant must show that “[t]he plan
revision is consistent with the standards of ORS 197.732 if a goal exception is required,
including any OAR’s adopted pursuant to these statutes.” The findings relating to the remaining
aspects of MCC 39.1205 are addressed within Section 4.00 of this report.

ORS 197.732 Goal exceptions; criteria; rules; review.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) “Compatible” is not intended as an absolute term meaning no interference or
adverse impacts of any type with adjacent uses.
(b) “Exception” means a comprehensive plan provision, including an amendment
to an acknowledged comprehensive plan, that:
(A) Is applicable to specific properties or situations and does not establish a
planning or zoning policy of general applicability;

Staff Finding: The request is limited to one 0.93 acre property at 2326 SE Troutdale Road and
will not establish a zoning policy of general applicability.

(B) Does not comply with some or all goal requirements applicable to the
subject properties or situations; and

Staff Finding: As noted above, Goal 3 is applicable to the subject property because the subject
property is zoned EFU. A comprehensive plan amendment rezoning the subject property from
EFU to Rural Residential (“RR”) does not comply with the applicable Goal 3 requirement that
“[a]gricultural lands shall be preserved and maintained for farm use” because the primary
purpose of the RR zone is to provide areas for residential use, rather than farming. See MCC
39.4350 (purpose of RR zone). In other words, property zoned RR is not required to be used for
farm and limited nonfarm uses like EFU zoned property. Therefore, changing the zoning from
EFU, which “preserve[s] and maintain[s] [property] for farm use,” to RR, which does not have a
similar preservation purpose, does not currently comply with Goal 3 requirements applicable to
the subject property and therefore requires an “exception.”

(C) Complies with standards under subsection (2) of this section.
Applicant: The applicant chooses to address “irrevocably committed” exception criteria (2)(a)
and (b) rather than “reasons” exception criteria (2)(c).

Staff Finding: The applicant has made this application under ORS 197.732 subsection (2)(a) &
(b). ORS 197.732(2) provides three separate avenues for a goal exception – (a, physically
developed), (b, irrevocably committed), and (c, reasons). An applicant can attempt to justify the
exception based on one or a combination of these three provisions. Findings relating to ORS
197.732(2) are addressed below.
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 9 of 43

(2) A local government may adopt an exception to a goal if:
(a) The land subject to the exception is physically developed to the extent that it is
no longer available for uses allowed by the applicable goal;
Applicant: The subject property, currently zoned Exclusive Farm Use (EFU), is less than an
acre in size. The parcel was created in 1886 when the original land grant owners, William and
Mary Jones deeded the land to School District #10 of Multnomah County to be used for a new
school to replace the nearby aging one-room log-cabin school house, known as Cedar School,
built in 1857. The second Cedar School was built shortly after the land was deeded to the school
district and remained in place until a newer school was built on the site and opened in 1927.
The school district used the building as a school house and for other purposes until 1971 when
it was vacated. After the school district vacated the property, ownership reverted back to
descendants of the Jones family who sold the property in 1976. The school house building is still
present today and is now used as a single-family dwelling and in-house photography studio.
Since construction of the former Cedar School building on this site in 1886, the property has not
been used for farming, nor has it been available for farm use. Virtually the entire .93 acres is
physically developed with buildings, driveways, parking area and walkways, or large trees and
landscaping. The property is clearly developed to the extent that is unavailable for EFU
resource land uses. (See Exhibit A-1, Aerial Photo Site Map)

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. This standard
requires a determination of whether the subject property is physically developed to the extent
that it is no longer available for the uses allowed by Goal 3, which primarily are agricultural and
farm uses. The majority of the 0.93-acre property is dominated by existing development
including the historic schoolhouse building, a driveway and parking area, and pedestrian
sidewalk connections (see aerial photograph – Exhibit A.1.4.A). The septic system and sanitary
drainfield take up a substantial portion of a 0.93 acre property as well (Exhibit A.1.4.A).
A few examples of common primary uses allowed by the applicable goal (Goal 3) which are
unavailable on the property given the existing physical development and limited parcel size
include farm uses such as commercial raising, harvesting and sale of crops or livestock (MCC
39.4220(A)), propagation and harvesting of forest products such as timber (MCC 39.4220(C)),
and industrial facilities for the processing farm or forest products (MCC 39.4230(A) & (G)).

(b) The land subject to the exception is irrevocably committed as described by
Land Conservation and Development Commission rule to uses not allowed by the
applicable goal because existing adjacent uses and other relevant factors make uses
allowed by the applicable goal impracticable; or
(c) The following standards are met:
(A) Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals
should not apply;
(B) Areas that do not require a new exception cannot reasonably
accommodate the use;
(C) The long term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences
resulting from the use at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 10 of 43
adverse impacts are not significantly more adverse than would typically
result from the same proposal being located in areas requiring a goal
exception other than the proposed site; and
(D) The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or will be so
rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.

Applicant: The applicant chooses to address “irrevocably committed” exception criteria (2)(a)
and (b) rather than “reasons” exception criteria (2)(c).

Staff Finding: The applicant addresses ORS 197.732(2)(b) beginning in Section 3.03 of this
report by addressing the standards in OAR 660-004-0028(2), which implement the standard in
(2)(b) above. The applicant does not and need not address ORS 197.732(2)(c) because an
exception may be approved under any one of the three subsections of ORS 197.732(2).

3.03 OAR 660-004-0028 Exception Requirements for Land Irrevocably Committed to Other
Uses
(1) A local government may adopt an exception to a goal when the land subject to the
exception is irrevocably committed to uses not allowed by the applicable goal because
existing adjacent uses and other relevant factors make uses allowed by the applicable goal
impracticable:
(a) A “committed exception” is an exception taken in accordance with ORS
197.732(2)(b), Goal 2, Part II(b), and with the provisions of this rule, except where
other rules apply as described in OAR 660-004-0000(1).
(b) For the purposes of this rule, an “exception area” is that area of land for which
a “committed exception” is taken.
(c) An “applicable goal,” as used in this rule, is a statewide planning goal or goal
requirement that would apply to the exception area if an exception were not taken.(2)
Whether land is irrevocably committed depends on the relationship between the exception
area and the lands adjacent to it. The findings for a committed exception therefore must
address the following:
 (a) The characteristics of the exception area;
Applicant: By definition the "exception area" is that area of land for which a "committed
exception" is taken, which in the case of this application, is the .93 acre parcel.  As previously
described, the exception area is characterized as a fully developed parcel containing an old
school house now being used as a residence along with several outbuildings, driveway and
parking area, and significant landscaping with mature trees and shrubs. The property is not
farmed and in its present state has no potential to be commercially farmed. The exception area
can best be described as rural residential in character.
Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s description of the characteristics of
the exception area, which can also be seen in the photographs in Exhibit A.1.4.A. Additional
findings about the impracticability of farming the subject property are set forth in Section 3.08.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 11 of 43
3.04  (b) The characteristics of the adjacent lands;
Applicant: The subject property is surrounded on three sides by agricultural land normally
planted in field crops; but that land is buffered from the subject property by mature trees and
shrubs that provide a clear separation between farm use and rural residential use. The subject
property fronts on SE Troutdale Road, a paved two-lane county collector street. Across
Troutdale Road from the subject property are several rural residences on small tracts. The
properties along SE Troutdale Rd immediately across from the exception area are zoned Rural
Residential.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s description of adjacent lands. The
subject property is surrounded on three sides (north, east, and south) by an existing, active farm
(Exhibit A.1.4.A). The surrounding farm is currently planted in a soil fixing cover crop and has
previously been planted in berries (Exhibit B.14). The property is fronted along the west by SE
Troutdale Road. Directly across the road are smaller properties in the RR zone ranging in size
from 0.73 acres to 10.92 acres developed with single-family dwellings (Exhibit A.1.4.A).

3.05  (c) The relationship between the exception area and the lands adjacent to it; and
Applicant: Because of the large trees and extensive shrubbery that line the perimeter of the
exception area, there is a distinct buffer between it and the adjacent farm land to its north,
south and east. Arborvitae line the property wherever gaps occur in the more mature landscape
plantings in order to provide continuous screening from adjacent farm lands. The exception
area is open along its frontage to the west at the driveway and two walkway connections to SE
Troutdale Road, which orients the site more to the rural residential zoned properties located
across the road than it does to the adjacent agricultural land.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s description of the relationship
between the exception area (subject property) and the lands adjacent to it. Trees and shrubbery
provide a buffer around the perimeter of subject property to the north, south, and east (Exhibit
A.1.4.A). This vegetative buffer provides a degree of physical separation between the subject
property (proposed exception area) and the surrounding active farm operation. As a result of the
vegetative buffer, it would be difficult to use the proposed exception area in conjunction with
the adjoining farm operation. That is particularly true in light of the relatively small size of the
proposed exception area and the existing development in the proposed exception area.

3.06  (d) The other relevant factors set forth in OAR 660-004-0028(6).
Applicant: See responses to relevant factors in (6) below.
Staff Finding: Findings relating to the factors set forth in OAR 660-004-0028(6) are addressed
in Sections 3.13 through 3.18 of this report.

3.07 OAR 660-004-0028(3) Whether uses or activities allowed by an applicable goal are
impracticable as that term is used in ORS 197.732(2)(b), in Goal 2, Part II(b), and in this
rule shall be determined through consideration of factors set forth in this rule, except
where other rules apply as described in OAR 660-004-0000(1). Compliance with this rule
shall constitute compliance with the requirements of Goal 2, Part II. It is the purpose of
this rule to permit irrevocably committed exceptions where justified so as to provide
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 12 of 43
flexibility in the application of broad resource protection goals. It shall not be required
that local governments demonstrate that every use allowed by the applicable goal is
"impossible." For exceptions to Goals 3 or 4, local governments are required to
demonstrate that only the following uses or activities are impracticable: (underlining
added)
Applicant: This application is a Goal 3 exception so the following uses are applicable.
Staff Finding: The relevant factors to be considered for this application, which in part requests
an irrevocably committed exception to Goal 3, are set forth in this rule. No other factors as
described in OAR 660-004-0000(1)(a)-(c) need to be considered for the specific exceptions
listed including sewer service to rural lands (1)(a), urban transportation improvements on rural
lands (1)(b) or urban development on rural land (1)(c). Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands) applies to
EFU land and therefore an exception is required for zone changes to a non-resource zone such
as RR. The following findings determine whether the following uses or activities are
impracticable, as required for an irrevocably committed exception.

3.08 (a) Farm use as defined in ORS 215.203;
Applicant: Demonstration that farm use is impracticable on the subject property is found in the
response to ORS 197.732(2)(a) above [Section 3.02].

Staff Finding: This standard requires an applicant to show that farm use, as defined in ORS
215.203, is impracticable on the subject property. Farm use is defined in ORS 215.203(2)(a), in
part, as “the current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit in money
by raising, harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding, management and sale of, or the
produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or honeybees or for dairying and the sale of
dairy products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or animal husbandry or any
combination thereof.” As found in Section 3.02, the applicant demonstrated that farm use as
defined in ORS 215.203 is impracticable on the subject property because the majority of the
0.93-acre property is dominated by existing development including the historic schoolhouse
building, parking area and pedestrian sidewalk connections (see aerial photograph – Exhibit
A.1.4.A). The septic system and sanitary drainfield take up a substantial portion of a 0.93 acre
property as well (Exhibit A.1.4.A). Very little of the remaining area of the 0.93 acre property
could be practically used for agricultural purposes because given the small property size (less
than one acre) and the existing development, it is unlikely that the property is capable of
producing sustained profit from the sale of any agricultural products that could be grown on the
premises.

Although it is possible for certain small farming operations to be profitable, even small farming
operations in Multnomah County often are located on properties that are larger than one acre,
suggesting that at least one acre of property is typically necessary for a farm use as defined in
ORS 215.203. The average farm size in Multnomah County is 39 acres according to the 2017
USDA Census of Agriculture (Exhibit B.15). In fact, this resource breaks farm sizes into six
categories with the smallest category capturing farms 1 to 9 acres, with no data being reported
for commercial farming operations smaller than 1-acre.

In addition, as discussed under Section 3.05, although there is an active farm operation on the
adjacent property, the vegetative buffer between the subject property and the neighboring farm
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 13 of 43
operation would prevent use of the much smaller subject property in conjunction with the
neighboring farm operation.
3.09 (b) Propagation or harvesting of a forest product as specified in OAR 660-033-0120; and
Applicant: For the same reasons that the subject property is irrevocably committed to
nonresource uses and is unsuited to commercial agricultural, the same is true for the
propagation and harvesting of a forest product. This fully developed .93 acre parcel simply does
not lend itself to forestry related uses.

Staff Finding: This standard requires an applicant to show that propagation or harvesting of a
forest product as specified in OAR 660-033-0120 is impracticable on the subject property.
OAR 660-033-0120 lists the specific development and uses authorized on agricultural lands.
The rule includes as an allowed use the “[p]ropagation or harvesting of a forest product,” but
does not further define that use.
Staff concurs with and adopts applicant’s proposed finding. For similar reasons listed in Section
3.08 above, the property is not suitable for propagation or subsequent harvesting of forest
products both because (1) the property primarily consists of developed areas and (2) the
property is smaller than typically would be necessary to propagate or harvest forest products.
Although staff were unable to find data on the average size of commercial timber harvests in
Multnomah County, the Commercial Forest Use base zoning regulations require new properties
to be at least 80-acres in order to promote commercial timber uses. Additionally, Oregon’s
Forest Practices Act limits clear-cuts to 120-acres, suggesting something less than this acreage,
but likely much more than a fraction of an acre, is a viable size for propagation and harvesting
of a forest product (Exhibit B.16). In addition, even if the subject property were not already
significantly developed, there also are no forest products being propagated or harvested on
adjacent properties, i.e., there is no option to use the subject property for this purpose in
conjunction with uses on adjacent properties.

3.10 (c) Forest operations or forest practices as specified in OAR 660-006-0025(2)(a).
Applicant: Forest operations and forest practices including, but not limited to, reforestation of
forest land, road construction and maintenance, harvesting of a forest tree species, application
of chemicals, and disposal of slash, are totally impracticable on this fully developed .93 acre
parcel located in close proximity to other rural residences.

Staff Finding: This standard requires an applicant to show that forest operations or forest
practices as specified in OAR 660-006-0025(2)(a) are impracticable on the subject property.
OAR 660-006-0025(2)(a) provides, “The following uses pursuant to the Forest Practices Act
(ORS chapter 527) and Goal 4 shall be allowed in forest zones: (a) Forest operations or forest
practices including, but not limited to, reforestation of forest land, road construction and
maintenance, harvesting of a forest tree species, application of chemicals, and disposal of
slash[.]” Staff concurs with and incorporates the applicant’s proposed finding. The 0.93
property is developed with a schoolhouse, parking area, and a septic system, leaving little
remaining undeveloped area on the property on which to conduct forest operations or forest
practices. In addition, forestry typically requires much larger forested tracts of land, with the
typical privately owned forest lot comprising 40 acres or more of land (Exhibit B.17).
Moreover, adjacent properties are not used for forest operations or forest practices and therefore
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 14 of 43
do not offer an option for the subject property to be used for forestry purposes in conjunction
with uses on adjacent properties.

3.11 OAR 660-004-0028(4) A conclusion that an exception area is irrevocably committed shall
be supported by findings of fact that address all applicable factors of section (6) of this
rule and by a statement of reasons explaining why the facts support the conclusion that
uses allowed by the applicable goal are impracticable in the exception area.
Applicant: The applicant believes the responses to the exception criteria given in this narrative
provide sufficient findings of fact in support of conclusions that uses allowed by goal 3 are
impracticable in the exception area.

Staff Finding: The proposed 0.93 acre exception area is irrevocably committed to non-resource
use as found in Sections 3.13 through 3.18 of this report, addressing Section 6 of this rule (OAR
660-004-0028).
 Uses allowed by Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands) are impracticable because:
1. The existing development (and lack of agriculture and forestry) on the small 0.93 subject
property contrasts with the 44 acre farm surrounding the property on three sides (north,
east, and south).
2. A vegetative buffer around the perimeter of the property consisting of trees and
shrubbery make it difficult to use the proposed exception area in conjunction with the
adjoining farm operation.
3. The subject property shares a similar development pattern with the contiguous RR zoned
parcels to the west, but is dissimilar to the surrounding farmland.
4. Existing landscape features, such as significant trees and shrubs, effectively impede
practicable resource use of the exception area in conjunction with neighboring resource
uses (Exhibit A.1.4.A) because they create a barrier separating the much smaller
exception area from the neighboring farms.
5. The landscaping features impede practicable resource use of the exception area because
they occupy most areas of the property that are not already physically developed.
Staff concludes that the uses allowed by Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands) are impracticable in the
0.93 exception area.

3.12 (5) Findings of fact and a statement of reasons that land subject to an exception is
irrevocably committed need not be prepared for each individual parcel in the exception
area. Lands that are found to be irrevocably committed under this rule may include
physically developed lands.
Applicant: Because the exception area consists of only one parcel, reasons provided herein why
the exception area is irrevocably committed to a nonresource use necessarily apply to this
individual parcel.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 15 of 43
Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the Applicant’s proposed finding.
The first part of this standard relates to an exception area consisting of multiple parcels, and
therefore is not applicable to this application where the exception area consists of a single parcel
(the 0.93 acre subject property). The second part of this standard provides that lands that are
irrevocably committed may include physically developed lands. As discussed above under
Finding 3.02, in addition to being irrevocably committed, the subject property is physically
developed with the historic schoolhouse building, a driveway and parking area, septic system,
and pedestrian sidewalk connections (see aerial photograph – Exhibit A.1.4.A).

3.13 (6) Findings of fact for a committed exception shall address the following factors:
 (a) Existing adjacent uses;
Applicant: An explanation of existing adjacent uses is given under Criterion (2) above [Section
3.04 and Section 3.05 of this staff report].
Staff Finding: Under OAR 660-004-0028(1), land is irrevocably committed to uses not allowed
by Goal 3 when “existing adjacent uses and other relevant factors make uses allowed by the
applicable goal impracticable.” Based on that standard, one relevant factor for a committed
exception is what property uses exist on adjacent properties. An explanation of existing adjacent
uses is provided in Sections 3.04 and 3.05 above. Staff’s findings from those Sections are
restated here for ease of reference:

From Section 3.04: The subject property is surrounded on three sides (north, east, and south) by
an existing, active farm (Exhibit A.1.4.A). The property is fronted along the west by SE
Troutdale Road. Directly across the road are smaller properties in the RR zone ranging in size
from 0.73 acres to 10.92 acres developed with single-family dwellings.

From Section 3.05: Trees and shrubbery provide a buffer around the perimeter of subject
property to the north, south, and east (Exhibit A.1.4.A). This vegetative buffer provides a degree
of physical separation between the subject property (proposed exception area) and the
surrounding active farm operation. As a result of the vegetative buffer, it would be difficult to
use the proposed exception area in conjunction with the adjoining farm operation. That is
particularly true in light of the relatively small size of the proposed exception area and the
existing development in the proposed exception area.

The existing development (and lack of agriculture and forestry) on the small 0.93 subject
property contrasts with the 44 acre farm surrounding the property on three sides (north, east, and
south).
Conversely, though separated by a road, the subject property resembles the development pattern
of the RR zone properties towards the west. The RR properties along the west side of the SE
Troutdale Road share a similar development pattern with the subject property. In the case of the
subject property, it is dominated by an existing dwelling, parking, walkways, and landscaping,
which is substantially similar to the RR properties to the west.

3.14 (b) Existing public facilities and services (water and sewer lines, etc.);
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 16 of 43
Applicant: There are no public water or sewer lines serving the subject property. Water is
provided from an individual on-site well that is believed to have been originally dug to serve the
school and has since provided abundant, domestic water for users of the site. The well meets
domestic needs by currently pumping out 10 gallons of water per minute. (See Exhibit D,
Certification of Water Service form)
The City of Troutdale has an above-ground water reservoir on a two-acre parcel approximately
one-quarter mile to the east of the site immediately across from the adjacent farm land.  A 12-
inch water transmission line from this city-owned property provides domestic water to the
residents of the City. The water main runs west from the reservoir site along SE Strebin Road to
its intersection with SE Troutdale Road placing it less than 250 feet from the nearest corner of
the subject property. This line has the capacity to serve undeveloped properties along Strebin
Road and SE Troutdale Road, including the subject property.
Sewage from the subject property is discharged into an onsite private septic system that was
installed either at the time of the 1927 school house construction, or some time since then. The
system consists of a 1,000 gallon concrete septic tank to hold solids while the liquid waste is
discharged to an onsite drain field. The septic system was built to handle the needs of a school
and now provides more than adequate treatment and holding capacity for the current four-
bedroom single family dwelling use. The nearest Troutdale sewer line serves lots within a city
subdivision located on the north side of SE Strebin Road, approximately 500 feet northeast of
the subject property.
The subject property lies within Multnomah County Rural Fire District #10 which contracts
with the City of Gresham for fire service; thus, fire service is provided by nearby Gresham. The
closest fire station is located near Kane Drive and SE Division Street in Gresham -- less than
three miles from the subject property.
Police service is provided by the Multnomah County Sheriff’s Department, which has offices
nearby in the City of Troutdale.
The exception area is located less than 500 feet from the closest city limits of Troutdale to the
north. The City provides a full range of urban services and public facility infrastructure.

Staff Finding: The applicant has demonstrated that the property is served by existing public
utilities or equivalent private facilities. However, this standard requires an applicant to address
whether existing public facilities and services on or near the subject property commit the subject
property to non-resources uses. The level of public services do not irrevocably commit the
property to nonfarm uses.

3.15  (c) Parcel size and ownership patterns of the exception area and adjacent lands:
 (A) Consideration of parcel size and ownership patterns under subsection (6)(c) of this
rule shall include an analysis of how the existing development pattern came about and
whether findings against the goals were made at the time of partitioning or subdivision.
Past land divisions made without application of the goals do not in themselves
demonstrate irrevocable commitment of the exception area. Only if development (e.g.,
physical improvements such as roads and underground facilities) on the resulting
parcels or other factors makes unsuitable their resource use or the resource use of
nearby lands can the parcels be considered to be irrevocably committed. Resource and
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 17 of 43
nonresource parcels created and uses approved pursuant to the applicable goals shall
not be used to justify a committed exception. For example, the presence of several
parcels created for nonfarm dwellings or an intensive commercial agricultural
operation under the provisions of an exclusive farm use zone cannot be used to justify
a committed exception for the subject parcels or land adjoining those parcels.
(B) Existing parcel sizes and contiguous ownerships shall be considered together in
relation to the land's actual use. For example, several contiguous undeveloped parcels
(including parcels separated only by a road or highway) under one ownership shall be
considered as one farm or forest operation. The mere fact that small parcels exist does
not in itself constitute irrevocable commitment. Small parcels in separate ownerships
are more likely to be irrevocably committed if the parcels are developed, clustered in a
large group or clustered around a road designed to serve these parcels. Small parcels
in separate ownerships are not likely to be irrevocably committed if they stand alone
amidst larger farm or forest operations, or are buffered from such operations;
Applicant: The exception area consists of a single .93 acre parcel that was created in 1886
when the land owners deeded the property to the local school district in order to build a school
to replace the original Cedar School that was constructed in 1857 on a nearby site. Cedar
School was one of the earliest school houses in East County. The second Cedar School was built
on the current site in 1886 and was replaced by the existing school that was built in 1927. The
present structure continued to be used by the school district (later consolidated with Troutdale
School District) until 1971. The property was sold to a private party (William Rogers) in 1976
whereupon the school house was converted to a single-family residence. In 1978 William
Rogers sold the property to Timothy and Gail O’Neill, glasswork artists, who not only occupied
the building as their residence but also converted the auditorium and classrooms into art
studios and an art gallery. The current owner, Colleen Cahill, purchased the property in 1999
and continues to occupy it as a single-family dwelling as well as a studio/office for her
photography business.
The adjacent agricultural land that lies to the north, east and south of the exception area
consists of three parcels under the same ownership. The adjacent farm unit totals 28.58 acres
consisting of three individual parcels of 1.15, 8.48 and 18.95 acres.
The 1.15 acre adjacent parcel to the north appears to be a lot of record that was created many
years ago for unknown reasons. This parcel, along with the 8.48 acres to the east and the 18.95
acres to the south, has been in the Baker family since they settled the area decades ago. These
three parcels are part of the original Baker farmstead that still exists today. Although the Baker
family no longer farms the property, they lease it to others who continue to farm the land.
The four closest rural residential properties across Troutdale Road from the exception area are
each separately owned. Parcel sizes vary as follows: 4.95, 5.11, 7.33 and 10.11 acres. The
smallest of these parcels has existed since at least the mid-1950s, whereas as the other three
parcels were more recently created and do not show up on the County assessor maps until after
the 1970s.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s analysis of the ownership patterns
of the exception area and adjacent lands, except that staff does not and need not make any
determinations with respect to the ‘lot of record’ status of adjacent properties. In consideration
of subsection (A), the RR zoned properties to the west range in size from 0.73 acres (property
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 18 of 43
described as 1S3E12B -00302) to 10.92 acres (property described as 1S3E12B -00200). The
subject property was created prior to the creation of Statewide Planning Goal 3 (Agricultural
Lands). Oregon Senate Bill 100 (signed into law in 1973) (Exhibit B.7) established the
framework for Goal 3. The subject property was created in 1886 (Exhibit A.3) and was not
subject to Goal 3 at the time of its creation approximately 87 years prior. In addition, the non-
resource use of the property – for a single-family dwelling – predated EFU zoning on the
property, meaning the non-resource uses on the property were not approved pursuant to the
applicable goals (Exhibit B.18).

In consideration of subsection (B), none of the contiguous properties are in the same ownership
as the subject property. The majority of the small 0.93-acre property is dominated by existing
development including the historic schoolhouse building, a driveway and parking area, and
pedestrian sidewalk connections (see aerial photograph – Exhibit A.1.4.A). The septic system
and sanitary drainfield take up a substantial portion of a 0.93 acre property as well (Exhibit
A.1.4.A). While the property is surrounded on three sides by large EFU zoned parcels that are
currently used for farming, it is also contiguous (only separated by the public road) with smaller
RR zoned properties to the west. The subject property shares a similar development pattern with
the contiguous RR zoned parcels to the west, but is dissimilar to the surrounding farmland. The
fact that vegetative buffering between the farm operation and the subject property is not a
primary factor in consideration of existing parcel sizes and contiguous ownerships.

3.16  (d) Neighborhood and regional characteristics;
Applicant: The exception area is located in proximity to the neighboring cities of Gresham to
the west and Troutdale to the north. Full scale urban subdivisions are located at the edges of
both cities and those within the City of Troutdale provide a visual backdrop to the subject
property because of their nearness.
The northeast corner of the subject property lies within 250 feet of the urban growth boundary
that encompasses lands outside the Troutdale city limits but within its urban planning area.
These lands are subject to city zoning under an intergovernmental agreement between
Troutdale and Multnomah County.  Since these rural lands are earmarked for future
incorporation into the city and for urban level development, Troutdale has zoned them R-10,
which allows lots as small as 10,000 square feet to be created.
Approximately 0.2 miles to the east of the subject property is a 14.5 acre parcel occupied by the
Open Door Baptist Church and Open Door Christian Academy – a private school with grades
pre-school through high school. The academy has a current enrollment of 300 students and 20
teachers. Although located on the south side of SE Strebin road outside the Troutdale city limits
and outside the urban growth boundary, the church/school complex receives water and sewer
service from Troutdale through an extra-territorial service agreement.
Urban subdivisions within the City of Gresham to the west are separated from the exception
area by the rural residential parcels across Troutdale Road from the subject property. This
separation is further enhanced by the riparian corridor associated with Beaver Creek, which
flows along the rear of the rural residential parcels.
From a regional perspective, the subject property lies within the boundaries of the Metro
regional government. In 2010 in conjunction with its regional city and county partners, Metro
designated lands outside the current Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) but within its
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 19 of 43
jurisdictional boundaries as either Urban or Rural Reserves. An urban reserve designation
means that the lands can be considered for future inclusion within the UGB and ultimate urban
level development. A rural reserve designation means that the lands shall remain rural without
the prospect of inclusion within the UGB for at least fifty years.
During the process of designating urban and rural reserves, the subject property and
surrounding lands were proposed as rural reserves.  However, when the City of Troutdale
opposed this designation and expressed its desire to see this area designated as urban in order
to serve as a future expansion area for the city, Metro and Multnomah County decided to leave
an area of approximately 220 acres undesignated – meaning it is neither urban nor rural. The
undesignated status leaves the door open for further review and consideration of this area for
inclusion within the UGB and urban development in twenty years – in approximately the year
2030. Thus on the regional scale, the exception area is a potential candidate for designation as
urban reserve and inclusion within the UGB if there is need for additional lands to meet
projected urban growth over a twenty-year planning horizon.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s description of
neighborhood and regional characteristics. For the purposes of this discussion, it is useful to
define the neighborhood. Generally the neighborhood consists of lands within a quarter mile
exclusive of the urban subdivisions within the city limits of Troutdale and Gresham (Exhibit
B.19). The ‘neighborhood’ consists of a mix of larger farm properties (up to 27 acres), smaller
rural residential properties (as small as 0.73 acres), and a few properties dominated by other
uses such as a religious institution and water district infrastructure. The regional context for the
subject property is that it is situated very close to the urban areas of Troutdale and Gresham
(and the Urban Growth Boundary) and is located within Metro’s service boundary (Exhibit
B.19).

3.17 (e) Natural or man-made features or other impediments separating the exception area
from adjacent resource land. Such features or impediments include but are not limited
to roads, watercourses, utility lines, easements, or rights-of-way that effectively impede
practicable resource use of all or part of the exception area;
Applicant: There are no natural features or impediments separating the exception area from the
adjacent agricultural resource land. The only man-made feature that provides separation from
these resource lands is the extensive stand of trees, shrubs and other landscaping that line the
perimeter of the exception area. Much of the vegetation has been in existence for decades and
some of the trees appear to date back to the time of the second Cedar School’s construction on
this site in 1886, if not before. Based on their size, two cedar trees at the southeast corner of the
property, two maples at the northeast corner, and four Douglas firs and a maple tree on the
southern border appear to be over 100 years old. Some may have existed on the property long
before the school was built. These trees can be considered natural features that distinguish the
exception area from the cleared, open farm lands surrounding it.
Staff Finding: This standard requires examination of whether there are impediments separating
the exception area from adjacent resource land that effectively impede practicable resource use
of the exception area. Here, there are no man-made features or impediments separating the
exception area from the adjacent farm resource land. However, existing landscape features, such
as significant trees and shrubs, effectively impede practicable resource use of the exception area
in conjunction with neighboring resource uses (Exhibit A.1.4.A) because they create a barrier
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 20 of 43
separating the much smaller exception area from the neighboring farms. In addition, those
landscaping features impede practicable resource use of the exception area because they occupy
most areas of the property that are not already physically developed.

3.18 (f) Physical development according to OAR 660-004-0025; and
OAR Chapter 660
Division 4 INTERPRETATION OF GOAL 2 EXCEPTION PROCESS

Staff Finding: As found in Section 3.21 of this report, Physical development according to OAR
660-004-0025 is a factor for the committed exception.

3.19  (g) Other relevant factors.
Applicant: The applicant has not identified any other factors for a findings of fact related to a
committed exception for this property.

Staff Finding: Another relevant factor for the irrevocably committed exception is the historical
nature of the property and the development on the property, which make it impracticable to
engage in resource use of the property. The property was created in 1886 (Exhibit A.3) and a
schoolhouse was constructed on it shortly thereafter. The property has been in non-resource use
since that time. The original building was replaced by the current one in 1927. The site is not
simply physically developed, but has a history dating as far back as the history of the state of
Oregon, which became a state in 1859. A primary goal of the applicant is to be able to legally
occupy the building for residential purposes and in turn take care of the historic building and
property. According to the applicant:
“The current owner/occupant is actively engaged in preserving the building’s historical
integrity. During development of the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan in 2016, the
property owner engaged in an online petition drive to garner community support for her effort
to preserve Cedar School, as well as support for preservation of historic sites in general. That
petition drive resulted in nearly 500 signatures on the owner’s Facebook page. In a strong show
of support for her cause, the Troutdale Historic Society obtained 22 personal signatures for her
petition.”
Further, the Troutdale Historical Society has submitted a letter in support for the zone change in
recognition of the property as a historical asset (Exhibit A.1.4.E-6). The City of Troutdale and
several community members have also sent letters in support of the proposal (Exhibit A.1.4.E).
Staff finds that the proposed zone change to Rural Residential further supports the upkeep and
maintenance of the historic property and as such is an additional relevant factor.

3.20 (7) The evidence submitted to support any committed exception shall, at a minimum,
include a current map or aerial photograph that shows the exception area and adjoining
lands, and any other means needed to convey information about the factors set forth in
this rule. For example, a local government may use tables, charts, summaries, or
narratives to supplement the maps or photos. The applicable factors set forth in section (6)
of this rule shall be shown on the map or aerial photograph.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 21 of 43
Applicant: Exhibit A-3 is an aerial photo showing the exception area and adjacent lands. It
provides evidence to support a committed exception finding.

Staff Finding: The applicant submitted an aerial photo with labeled development and
infrastructure (Exhibit A.1.4.A) This evidence in addition to the applicant’s narrative as
supplemented by staff findings in Sections 3.13 through 3.19 above.

3.21 660-004-0025
Exception Requirements for Land Physically Developed to Other Uses
(1) A local government may adopt an exception to a goal when the land subject to the
exception is physically developed to the extent that it is no longer available for uses
allowed by the applicable goal. Other rules may also apply, as described in OAR 660-004-
0000(1).
Applicant: In responses to previous criteria, this narrative has explained why the land subject
to an exception is physically developed to the extent that it is no longer available for goal 3
uses.
The applicant does not believe that other rules described in OAR 660-004-0000(1) apply to this
particular exception request.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. This standard
requires a determination of whether the subject property is physically developed to the extent
that it is no longer available for the uses allowed by Goal 3, which primarily are agricultural and
farm uses. The majority of the 0.93-acre subject property is dominated by existing development
including the historic schoolhouse building, outdoor deck, driveway, parking area and
pedestrian sidewalk connections (see aerial photograph – Exhibit A.1.4.A). Typically a septic
system and sanitary drainfield take up a substantial portion of a 0.93-acre developed rural
subject property as well. Because most of the 0.93-acre subject property is physically developed
with structures and paved areas, the exception area is no longer available for the resource uses
allowed under Goal 3. In addition, the specific rules described in OAR 660-004-0000(1) do not
apply to this application because it does not address (a) reasons for sanitary sewer service to
rural lands; (b) reasons for urban transportation improvements on rural land; or (c) irrevocably
committed or reasons exceptions to urban development on rural lands.

(2) Whether land has been physically developed with uses not allowed by an applicable
goal will depend on the situation at the site of the exception. The exact nature and extent of
the areas found to be physically developed shall be clearly set forth in the justification for
the exception. The specific area(s) must be shown on a map or otherwise described and
keyed to the appropriate findings of fact. The findings of fact shall identify the extent and
location of the existing physical development on the land and can include information on
structures, roads, sewer and water facilities, and utility facilities. Uses allowed by the
applicable goal(s) to which an exception is being taken shall not be used to justify a
physically developed exception.
Applicant: This goal exception is being sought for the purpose of allowing the already
developed .93 acre exception area to be used as a single-family dwelling, just as it has been
since 1976. Single-family dwellings in conjunction with farming operations are permitted on
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 22 of 43
Goal 3 agricultural lands so the requested use is not inconsistent with allowed uses on EFU
lands. In the case of the exception area, however, the existing dwelling is not farm related and
the subject property has no potential for agricultural use because it is physically developed.
The applicant believes the nature and extent to which the exception area has been physically
developed has been adequately described in the previous responses to the exception criteria.
This nature and extent of this physical development is demonstrated on the aerial photographs
included with this application narrative. (Exhibits A-1 and A-2)

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. As found in
Section 3.03, the majority of the 0.93-acre property is physically developed including the
historic schoolhouse building, deck, sheds, parking area, driveway and pedestrian sidewalk
connections (see aerial photograph – Exhibit A.1.4.A). The applicant’s site plan (Exhibit
A.1.4.A) indicates the location of the septic system and sanitary drainfield and well. Most of the
remaining area of the 0.93-acre subject property is existing landscaping associated with the
former school site (Exhibit A.1.4.A). Based on aerial photographs, it appears that there are only
two areas of the subject property that are not physically developed or landscaped: (1) an
approximately 45 foot by 45 foot area of property adjacent to a walkway and the septic
drainfield, and (2) an approximately 60 foot by 60 foot area behind the deck (Exhibit A.1.4.A).

In addition, although a single-family dwelling use is allowed on Goal 3 agricultural lands, the
current single-family dwelling use pre-dated EFU zoning on the property and was not
established in accordance with Goal 3 (Exhibit B.18).

4.00 Multnomah County Type 4 Quasi-Judicial Plan and Zone Change Criteria

4.01 MCC 39.1205(A) Quasi-judicial Plan Revision.
 (1) The plan revision is consistent with the standards of ORS 197.732 if a goal exception
is required, including any OAR's adopted pursuant to these statutes;

Applicant: A goal exception is required so this criterion applies.

Staff Finding: The plan revision is consistent with the goal exception standards of ORS
197.732 and its implementing OARs as determined in the findings in Section 3.01 through 3.21
of this report. This standard is met.

4.02 (2) The proposal conforms to the intent of relevant policies in the comprehensive plan or
that the plan policies do not apply. In the case of a land use plan map amendment for a
commercial, industrial, or public designation, evidence must also be presented that the
plan does not provide adequate areas in appropriate locations for the proposed use;

Applicant: This application seeks a land use plan map amendment for agricultural resource
lands; therefore, it is unnecessary to present evidence that the plan does not provide adequate
areas in appropriate locations for the proposed use.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 23 of 43
Staff Finding: The proposal conforms to the intent of relevant policies of the Comprehensive
Plan as determined in Section 5.1 through 5.3 of this report. The amendment does not include
commercial, industrial, or public designation, so the second part of this standard is not
applicable. This standard is met.

4.03 (3) The uses allowed by the proposed changes will:
(a) Not destabilize the land use pattern in the vicinity;
Applicant: The uses that are contemplated to occur on the site under the proposed RR zoning
are the existing single family dwelling and the home occupation photography business.
Although RR zoning is considered a more “intensive” zone than EFU, in reality the EFU zone
allows a much broader range of uses, many of which are more intensive than what is permitted
in RR. For example, the EFU zone allows exploration and production of geothermal resources,
operations for exploration of minerals, churches and cemeteries in conjunction with churches,
and fire service facilities. None of these are permitted in the RR zone. The list of review uses
for EFU is much more expansive and intensive than RR. Included among the review uses
permitted in EFU but not in RR are:
 Farm stands
 Wineries
 Off-street parking and loading
 Parking of no more than seven log trucks
 Large wineries
 Up to 18 days of agri-tourism or other commercial events at a winery

The vast range of allowed uses under EFU zoning, which is considerably more extensive and
invasive than those allowed on RR lands, poses greater potential to destabilize the land use
pattern in the vicinity than RR zoning of this property would.
Long-time prior use of the property as a school was never found to have destabilized the land
use pattern in this vicinity; nor has the present use of the property as a dwelling since 1976
destabilized the land use pattern in the area.  These uses have proven to be a good fit for the
parcel, which provides generous perimeter landscaping to buffer the property from adjacent
agricultural lands. The uses are consistent with the rural residential development pattern on
RR zoned properties immediately across Troutdale Road from the subject property.

Staff Finding: This standard requires a determination of whether the uses allowed by the
proposed change will destabilize the land use pattern in the vicinity, you have to first identify
what the land use pattern is. Staff understands vicinity to be synonymous with the
neighborhood as previously defined in Section 3.16 of this report and restated here; generally
the neighborhood consists of lands within a quarter mile exclusive of the urban subdivisions
within the city limits of Troutdale and Gresham (Exhibit B.19). The ‘neighborhood’ consists of
a mix of larger farm properties (up to 27 acres), smaller rural residential properties (as small as
0.73 acres), and a few properties dominated by other uses such as a religious institution and
water district infrastructure.
Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s proposed finding. The existing
development on the site is very similar to the development pattern in the vicinity and the RR
zone properties in particular. Where dwellings are located they are typically adjacent to parking
areas and landscaping which matches the existing development pattern on the subject site. This
development pattern is especially prevalent in the RR zoned properties located west of the
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 24 of 43
subject property. No changes are proposed to the subject property configuration or to
development patterns on this site as part of this application that would impact the local land use
pattern. This standard is met.

4.04 (b) Not conflict with existing or planned uses on adjacent lands; and

Applicant: There is clearly no conflict with existing rural residences that occupy the adjacent
properties along Troutdale Road to the west.  Past and current uses of the subject property
have coexisted in harmony with agricultural activities on adjacent farm lands.

Staff Finding: The current uses on adjacent lands are agriculture to the north, east, and west
and Rural Residential development to the west. These uses are allowed in their respective zone
designations (EFU and RR). The existing zoning on adjacent lands mirrors the Comprehensive
Plan zoning designations planned for the area (Exhibit B.8). The proposed zone change of the
subject property from EFU to RR does not conflict with adjacent uses because rural residences
are typical in the rural agricultural community. In addition, the subject property has been used
for residential purposes for years with no evidence of conflict with farm uses or rural
residential uses on adjacent lands. A letter from Robert Baker (Exhibit A.1.4.E-1), the adjacent
owner of the surrounding agricultural properties, indicates that they are in support of the
application, do not foresee any conflicts with the existing agricultural operation and are in
support of the applicant’s plan to continue maintaining the historic schoolhouse. Staff is not
aware of any future planned uses on adjacent lands which need be considered. This standard is
met.

4.05 (c) That necessary public services are or will be available to serve allowed uses.

Applicant: The water well and septic system that serve the subject property are believed to
have been installed in conjunction with the original use of the site as a school; however,
undocumented replacements and upgrades could possibly have occurred since then. These
systems continue to provide more than adequate service for the single-family residence and
photography studio that now occupy the property. Allowed uses in the RR zone would not
trigger the need for additional public services from what is already available to the site.

Staff Finding: Public services necessary to serve a Rural Residential zoned property in this
area typically include, access onto a County public road, emergency services, water, sanitation,
electric, garbage Existing public services include access onto a County public road, and
emergency services provided by the County Sherriff and Fire District 10. Other public services
available to the site include electrical power provided by PGE, Natural Gas by Northwest
Natural, mail service by the USPS and garbage service provided by Twelve Mile Disposal
Services. According to the applicant, water is provided on site by a private well (Water Cert.
Exhibit A.1.4.D) and sanitation is handled by an onsite septic system and drainfield (Exhibit
A.1.4.A – site plan) Staff finds that the necessary public services are available. This standard is
met.

4.06 (4) Proof of change in a neighborhood or community or mistake in the planning or zoning
for the property under consideration are additional relevant factors to be considered
under this subsection.
Applicant: As previously noted, the subject property was zoned MUA-20 for a period of time
when the County first adopted new rural zoning in compliance with statewide planning goals
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 25 of 43
and guidelines. This was likely done in recognition of the development status of the property
with a non-farm use and its close proximity to neighboring rural residences zoned RR. If MUA-
20 zoning were still present, the non-farm residence on the property would be allowable. For
reasons unknown to the applicant, in the early 1980’s the zoning designation was changed to
EFU-CS thereby rendering the residence as an unallowable nonfarm dwelling. In the absence
of the facts, one could argue that this zone change was a mistake.
A relevant factor that the neighborhood is positioned for change is the fact that Metro and the
County have not designated the subject property and surrounding area as either urban or rural
reserves. The area has been undesignated to allow it to be evaluated for possible inclusion
within the UGB in or around the year 2030. Continued build out of lands within neighboring
Troutdale and Gresham, along with dwindling developable land within the current UGB in
general, will place increasing pressure on this undesignated area for future inclusion within
the UGB. (See Exhibit E-8, Letter from City of Troutdale)
Staff Finding: The standard requires proof of a change in either the neighborhood or
community or a mistake in the planning or zoning (or both). In this case, a mistake in the
zoning occurred.
The earliest zoning on the property (prior to 1977) was F-2 (Exhibit B.9). The F-2 zone
permitted single family dwelling as an allowed use (Exhibit B.10). In 1977 the zone changed to
MUA-20 (Exhibit B.11 -- on 10/6/1977 (Ord 149)). The larger adjacent farm properties were
also included in the MUA-20 zone, while properties west of the SE Troutdale Road were
included in the RR zone. The MUA-20 zone also permitted single family dwellings as an
allowed use (Exhibit B.12). In 1980 the zoning of the subject property changed to EFU as did
all of the much larger agricultural parcels east of SE Troutdale Road (Exhibit B.13 -- 7/15/1980
(Ord 238)). Staff suspects that the inclusion of the subject property in the EFU zone in 1980
was due to a ‘broad brush’ zoning effort in response State mandates to apply the EFU zone to
agricultural areas consisting of high-value farm soils.
Staff finds that the inclusion of the 0.93 acre historical property in the EFU zone rather than
the adjacent RR zone may be considered a ‘mistake’ insofar as the property was never likely to
be suitable for agriculture given (1) the small size of the property; (2) the extensive
development on the property dating back to the 1800s; and (3) the fact that the property had
never been used for agricultural purposes.  Even with demolition of the historic schoolhouse
and the associated sanitation infrastructure, the property would likely be too small to be
considered a suitable commercial farm, and it is questionable whether demolition of the
schoolhouse and associated infrastructure would restore the land to a quality where it could be
farmed at all.

4.07 MCC 39.1205(B) Quasi-Judicial Zone Change. The burden of proof is upon the person
initiating a zone change request. That burden shall be to persuade that:

Staff Finding: As demonstrated in the findings in Sections 4.08 through 4.11 below, the
applicant has carried the burden of proof in support of the proposed zone change. This standard
is met.

4.08 (1) Granting the request is in the public interest;
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 26 of 43
Applicant: The term “public interest” is not defined in the Multnomah County Zoning Code
nor does it appear to be defined anywhere within ORS land use planning enabling legislation.
Thus, the term can be, and has been, broadly construed in the context of land use law.
As it pertains to this rezone application, the public interest being addressed is the right to
continue use of a historic old school house as a legal single-family dwelling and the
opportunity to obtain a home occupation permit for the owner’s photography studio within the
dwelling. It is in the public interest that the old Cedar School be preserved and properly
maintained so that it provides a visual connection to history for the local community and for all
those who once attended the school or its many extracurricular activities such as civic, social,
and recreational events.
Since purchasing and occupying the site in 1999, the applicant has dedicated an enormous
amount of time, energy and money into repair and upkeep of the building and grounds. This
has been particularly challenging given the age of the building with its frequent need for
structural, mechanical and electrical repairs and upgrades. The owner has a deep devotion to
preservation of the property, which is demonstrated by the photographic display of previous
school classes, historical newspaper clippings, and memorabilia from Cedar School’s past.
Visitors to the home or to the photography studio are welcomed upon their entry by this
display, giving them an immediate understanding and appreciation for the property’s rich
history. The building’s bright brick exterior with its unique architecture sets it apart from other
properties and serves as a constant reminder of its place in East Multnomah County’s heritage.

Granting this rezone request from EFU to RR will enable the former Cedar School building to
be occupied as a legally authorized residence along with operation of an allowed home
occupation. This occupancy is the best assurance of the property’s continuous maintenance
and its preservation as a historical resource. Granting this request is clearly in the public
interest. (See Exhibit E-4, Letter from neighbors, Dan and Jolene Cox, Exhibit E-5, Letter from
Open Door Baptist Church and Exhibit E-6, Letter from Troutdale Historical Society)

Staff Finding: The standard requires the request to serve the public as opposed to that which
would solely serve the property owner. Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed
finding as it relates to historic preservation of the schoolhouse structure being in the public
interest. The change to RR zoning is more likely to facilitate the maintenance and upkeep of
the historic property if the property can be lawfully used for residential purposes. In other
words, the change to RR zoning provides the applicant with an opportunity to make an
application to lawfully use the subject property for residential purposes, which in turn will
incentivize and facilitate the maintenance and upkeep of the historic property. Though the
rezone does not authorize any particular use on the property. This standard is met.

4.09 (2) There is a public need for the requested change and that need will be best served by
changing the classification of the property in question as compared with other available
property;

Applicant: Our manmade world is enriched by the presence of historical resources that link us
to our past and remind us of people, places, and events that shaped who we are as a society
today. All those who live in the vicinity of Cedar School and those simply passing by the site
are profoundly struck by the simple grandness of this historic building. The Troutdale
Historical Society is on record supporting this rezone application because the Society
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 27 of 43
recognizes the historical importance of the building and the risk of losing it if the current
owner is denied use of it as a residence. If RR zoning, which will allow residential use of the
building, is denied, the prospect increases that the owner will vacate the site and the likelihood
increases that a less sympathetic owner will let the building fall into such disrepair that
demolition becomes necessary. For this reason, there is a public need to change the zoning of
the subject property and that need is best served by changing the zoning classification to Rural
Residential. Because of Cedar School’s historical significance and unique characteristics, no
other property in the vicinity could satisfy this public need. (See Exhibit E-7, Letter from
Troutdale Historian, Sharon Nesbitt)

Staff Finding: The standard requires the requested change to serve a public need. The historic
preservation of the schoolhouse structure is in the public interest and the change to RR zoning
is more likely to facilitate the maintenance and upkeep of the historic property if the property
can be lawfully used for residential purposes. Changing the zoning classification for this
property, rather than locating the use on other available property, is the only option given the
historic schoolhouse structure already is located on the subject property. This standard is met.

4.10 (3) The proposed action fully accords with the applicable elements of the Comprehensive
Plan; and

Applicant: This zone change criterion has been addressed by previous responses to MCC
39.1205(A)(2), Quasi-judicial Plan Revision criteria.

Staff Finding: As determined in the findings in Sections 5.01 through 5.03 below, the
proposed zoned change fully accords with the applicable elements of the Comprehensive Plan.
This standard is met.

4.11 (4) Proof of change in a neighborhood or community or mistake in the planning or zoning
for the property under consideration are additional relevant factors to be considered
under this subsection. The existence of home occupations shall not be used as justification
for a zone change.

Applicant: Evidence of change occurring in the neighborhood is found in the presence of
residential subdivisions a short distance northeast of the subject property. Although located
within nearby City of Troutdale, these subdivisions of former agricultural land are an example
of the change that has surrounded the Cedar School site. The most recent of these subdivisions
occurs on land owned by the Baker family, who also own the farm land immediately adjacent
to the subject property. The Bakers sold 12.3 acres of their farmland for development in 2007.
They own another 27 acres which lies just outside the city limits but within the urban growth
boundary and is, therefore, a prime candidate for annexation and development. In fact, this
property is already zoned for residential development (R-10) by the City under an
intergovernmental agreement with the County that transferred land use jurisdiction to
Troutdale. The southern boundary of this 27-acre tract is only 248 feet from the nearest corner
of the subject property.

As population growth within the Portland Metropolitan area intensifies, so too does the
pressure to develop more of the unincorporated lands within the UGB. In 2008, for example,
the City of Troutdale annexed two parcels just northwest of the subject property. The City’s
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 28 of 43
annexation of these 14.15 acres, located approximately 500 feet from the subject property at
their nearest points, further demonstrates the change the neighborhood is experiencing.

As previously mentioned in this narrative, the subject property was zoned MUA-20 for a period
of time when the County first adopted rural zoning in compliance with newly established
statewide planning goals and guidelines. This was likely done in recognition of the
development status of the property with a non-farm use and its close proximity to neighboring
rural residences zoned RR. In the early 1980’s the zoning designation was changed to EFU-CS
thereby rendering the residence as a non-allowable dwelling. One could argue that this zone
change was a mistake and should have retained MUA-20 zoning to this day.

Staff Finding: This standard largely mirrors the standard addresses in Section 4.06 of this
report, and the findings from Section 4.06 therefore are incorporated and adopted in response
to this standard as well. The presence of any home occupation is not a factor considered in this
application for a zone change.

5.00 Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Policies

As noted above in Section 4.02, MCC 39.1205(A)(2) requires an applicant seeking a quasi-judicial plan
revision to show that the proposal “conforms to the intent of relevant policies in the comprehensive
plan or that the plan policies do not apply.” The policies addressed below have been determined to be
the relevant policies in the comprehensive plan for purposes of this standard and the following findings
are made in support of that standard.
5.01 Exclusive Farm Use Zones

3.6 Designate and maintain as exclusive agricultural land, areas which are:
1. Predominantly agricultural soil capability I, II, III, and IV, as defined by the U.S.
Soil Conservation Service, and

Applicant: According to Soil Conservation Service maps the subject property consists of high
value agricultural soils (Quatama Loam, Class IIw).  However, the farmer of the adjacent
agricultural land has stated that the soils in the immediate area of the subject property are not
prime farming soils and require additional soil supplements to be as productive as other
nearby agricultural land. Regardless, because the subject parcel is fully developed and
irrevocably committed to a nonfarm use, it is not capable of being farmed. Thus, an EFU
designation is not appropriate for the site.

Staff Finding: These Comprehensive Plan policies relating to Exclusive Farm Use Zones are
relevant because the property currently is zoned EFU. The intent behind these policies
generally is to preserve the best agricultural lands for farm use and prevent the encroachment
of new development onto those lands. While the subject property and adjacent farm is
composed of Class II soil (37A-Quatama loam, 0 to 3 percent slopes, llw – Exhibit B.20), the
subject property was dedicated to educational use beginning in the 1850s and then residential
use in the 1970s before the property was zoned Exclusive Farm Use. Cultivation on the 0.93
acre subject property has not been realistic since the 1850s because of the small size of the
property and the fact that it is dominated by the school house and related parking and sanitation
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 29 of 43
infrastructure. This proposal conforms to the intent of the policy because this proposal will not
remove high value farm soil from agricultural use given that the property has not been in
agricultural use, or available for agricultural use, in over 100 years.  Stated differently, the
extensive development on the property and its historical use demonstrate that it need not be
maintained for exclusive agricultural use.

2. Of parcel sizes suitable for commercial agriculture, and

Applicant: The subject parcel is only .93 acres in size and is much too small to be a
commercially viable farm property. Because it is fully developed with a former school, now
used as a single family dwelling, it does not lend itself to being incorporated into any adjacent
farmland for agricultural purposes. On the basis of parcel size, the site is not suitable for
commercial agriculture.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s proposed finding.
The intent of this policy is to preserve parcels large enough for commercial agriculture for
exclusive agricultural use. As found in Section 3.08 the proposal to change the zone conforms
to the intent of this policy because the property is much smaller than typical commercial
agriculture parcels and therefore need not be maintained for exclusive agricultural use.

3. In predominantly commercial agriculture use, and

Applicant: The subject property has not been used for agriculture since the parcel was
established over 130 years ago for the purpose of constructing Cedar school. Even then, there
are several trees on the site that likely pre-date construction of the school, which suggests that
the property might not ever have been farmed. For this reason, the site is not appropriate for
EFU designation.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. The property
was dedicated to educational uses beginning in the 1850s and the current schoolhouse, parking
and landscaping have existed there since 1927, with residential use beginning in the 1970s. The
proposal to change the zone from EFU to RR conforms to the intent of this policy because the
subject property is not – nor has it been in the last 100 years – in predominantly commercial
agriculture use, and therefore it need not be maintained for exclusive agricultural use.

4. Not impacted by urban service, or

Applicant: The subject property is not currently impacted by urban services, but as previously
mentioned in this narrative, public (city) water and sewer service lines are within 250 feet and
500 feet respectively of the property. Both of these urban services can be extended to the
property if and when it is brought into the urban growth boundary for annexation into the City
of Troutdale, which has expressed a willingness to do so in the future.

Staff Finding: The intent of this policy is to preserve properties not impacted by urban service,
and that meet the other requirements listed above (e.g. size of property) for exclusive
agricultural use. Here, the property is not currently within an urban service area nor within the
Urban Growth Boundary, but it does have a septic system and drainfield that occupy portions
of the property that are not otherwise developed. The presence of that infrastructure, along with
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 30 of 43
the other development on the subject property and barriers described above, would make it
impractical to use the subject property for exclusive agricultural use. As a result, the proposal
to rezone the property RR is not contrary to the intent of this policy.

5. Other areas, predominantly surrounded by commercial agriculture lands, which
are necessary to permit farm practices to be undertaken on these adjacent lands.

Applicant: Although the subject parcel is surrounded on three sides by commercial
agricultural land, this parcel is not necessary to permit those farm practices from being
undertaken. Farming has occurred adjacent to the subject property throughout the many
decades it has been used as a school and residence. Long time farming practices have thrived
without need or dependence on the subject property for their existence. This standard for
designating lands for EFU zoning does not apply to the subject property.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. The subject
property is not necessary in the support of farm practices on adjacent lands because farming
has occurred on adjacent lands for many years while the subject property has been used for
residential and educational purposes. The subject property therefore need not be maintained for
exclusive agricultural use to conform with the intent of this policy.

 3.7 Restrict the use of exclusive farm use lands to agriculture and other uses, consistent
with state law, recognizing that the intent is to preserve the best agricultural lands from
inappropriate and incompatible development.

Applicant: The subject property was removed from agricultural use (if it was actually used for
agriculture) in 1886 and committed to a nonfarm use long before EFU zoning was established
under Oregon’s statewide planning program, enacted in the early 1970s. Because this property
was set aside as a school site over a hundred years ago, and developed for that use, it would
seem that a conscious decision was made at that time that use as a school was neither an
inappropriate nor incompatible development in a largely agricultural setting. Conversion of
the old school to a single family residence has not altered those conditions to render the site as
an inappropriate and incompatible development within an agricultural area. Past and present
uses of this site meet the intent of preserving the best agricultural lands from inappropriate and
incompatible development.

Staff Finding: This policy directs the County to apply the EFU zone to primarily allow for
agricultural uses, and other uses consistent with State law with the intent of preserving the best
agricultural lands from development. Although the policy says that EFU lands should be
restricted to agricultural uses, the intent of that policy is to preserve ag lands from
development. In this case, the subject property was developed well before the property was
zoned EFU, and the property is developed to a point where agricultural use is no longer
available or practicable on the property. As a result, a zone change to RR is not inconsistent
with the intent of this policy because the zone change will not take the best agricultural land
out of production or convert the best agricultural land to development – that development
already has occurred.

3.8 Maximize retention of the agricultural land base by maintaining Exclusive Farm Use
designated areas as farm lands with agriculture as the primary allowed use.
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 31 of 43

Applicant: If this small parcel were in agricultural use, then maintaining its EFU designation
would make much more sense. However, as has been stated numerous times in this narrative,
since it was created in 1886 this .93 acre parcel has been fully developed as a school and now
as a rural residence. For this reason, retaining EFU zoning on the property does nothing
toward maximizing retention of the agricultural land base.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s proposed finding.
The proposed zone change to RR does not jeopardize the retention of agricultural land, because
the property is not cultivated for farm use and has not been historically cultivated for farm use
so there is no “agricultural land base” to retain, particularly in light of the existing development
on the subject property.

3.9 Do not support zone changes that remove productive agricultural land from the
protection afforded under Goal 3 of the Oregon Statewide Planning Program.

Applicant: For the various reasons already stated in this narrative, approval of this rezone
request will not cause the removal of productive agricultural land since the subject property is
not currently in farm use, nor has it been in farm use for well over 100 years. It is irrevocably
committed to nonfarm development.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. The 0.93 acre
subject property is physically developed and irrevocably committed to nonfarm uses. The
subject property is neither currently nor historically productive agricultural land nor even
engaged in agriculture on any level, and as a result, this zone change will not remove
productive agricultural land from Goal 3 protections.

5.02 Rural Residential Areas

2.5 Designate limited areas for rural residential development based upon the following
criteria:
1. Significant parcelization when an average of five (5) acres or less has already
occurred, the majority of which are separately owned and developed;

Applicant: The land across Troutdale Road from the subject property is zoned rural residential
because of significant parcelization and other characteristics that justify rural residential
zoning. These rural residential lands, which lie between Troutdale Road on the east and the
Gresham city limits on the west, stretch from the Troutdale city limits on the north for
approximately 1.5 miles south to the Gresham city limits at SE Powell Valley Road. The four
rural residential parcels closest to the subject property are separately owned and range in size
from 4.95 acres to 10.11 acres, with an average parcel size of 6.87 acres. The subject parcel is
only .93 acres and is adjacent to a 1.15 acre parcel immediately north of it.

Because of significant parcelization, this standard for designating Rural Residential areas is
applicable to the subject property.

It is worth pointing out that the subject property was zoned MUA-20 in 1977 when the County
first adopted new rural zoning in compliance with statewide planning goals and guidelines.
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 32 of 43
The zoning included a Community Service (CS) overlay to reflect the school located on the
property. For reasons unknown to the applicant, this zoning designation was changed to EFU-
CS sometime in the early 1980’s. The CS designation has since been removed due to the
abandonment of the school and its conversion to a residence.

Staff Finding: These Comprehensive Plan policies relating to Rural Residential Zones are
relevant because the proposal is to change the zone of the subject parcel to RR. The intent
behind these policies generally is to provide for rural residential uses in areas that are already
differentiated from larger farm and forest properties by the existence of smaller properties
developed with single family dwellings.
Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. The term parcelization refers to
properties that are generally too small to engage in commercial agriculture independently. The
0.93 acre subject property is closer in size to the five acre minimum parcel size allowed for
new properties in the RR zone than it is to the 80 acre minimum parcel size permitted in the
EFU zone, and the property is separately owned and developed.

2. The area is not a cohesive commercial farm or forest resource area;

Applicant: The subject property, in conjunction with those rural residential parcels to the west
along Troutdale Road, is not part of a commercial farm or forest resource area. The property
has more in common with the rural residentially zoned parcels across the road than it does
with the farm lands that surround it to the north, east and south. This may explain why the
subject property was once zoned as MUA-20, a non-resource zoning designation. It also
explains why a Rural Residential designation is appropriate.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. The subject
property is not part of any larger commercial farm or forest resource area because it has not
been farmed or used for forest resources in conjunction with any surrounding properties. The
subject property therefore is appropriate to be designated for rural residential development.

3. The designated area is compatible with any adjacent farm or forest uses and would
not cause any substantial conflict with these natural resource uses;

Applicant: The subject parcel has existed as a nonfarm use since construction of Cedar School
on this site began in 1886. To the applicant’s knowledge, its use both as a school originally
and now as a residence has been compatible with adjacent farm uses and has never caused any
conflicts with those uses. As a school site it has long been accepted as an invaluable asset to
the surrounding community. Historically the property has served as more than just a school.
While it was a school house the building served as an important gathering place for the local
community who used it for dances, theater productions and other community events.

According to an information sheet about Cedar School prepared by the Troutdale Historical
Society: “In addition to serving Scouts, 4-H and Campfire Girls, the building was a community
meeting place.  Pie socials, spelling bees and literary society meetings occurred frequently.”
After the school was closed the building “served for brief periods as a church, warehouse,
square dance club, and college drama classroom.” All of these activities occurring on this site
over the years have posed no conflict with the natural resource use of the surrounding farm
lands. (See Exhibit F-1, Troutdale Historical Society information sheet, April 1979)
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 33 of 43

Even with its use as a single family residence since 1976, the property continues to blend in
harmoniously with surrounding agricultural lands. Approval of this rezone request to Rural
Residential will not alter the longstanding relationship of this site to adjacent agricultural
uses. (See Exhibit E-1, Letter from adjacent agricultural land owner, Robert Baker and Exhibit
E-3, Letter from nearby farmers, the Strebin Family)

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s proposed finding.
The change from the EFU to the RR zone will allow the applicant to seek approval for
residential use of the subject property. In addition to the information the applicant provided
above, there are no substantial conflicts between the residential use of the subject property and
adjacent farm uses due in part to the vegetative buffer located between the existing building
and adjacent agricultural uses (see aerial photograph – Exhibit A.1.4.A).

4. The land resource is predominantly forest or forest-agricultural in nature
(discounting the residences), rather than agricultural in character;

Applicant: The land in question is not forest or forest-agricultural in nature. Therefore, this
policy standard for designating lands for RR zoning does not apply.

Staff Finding: The intent of this standard is to consider areas for RR zoning that are either
predominately forested or mixed forest or agriculture as opposed to areas that are relatively
non-forested. To the extent that the land on the subject property, excluding the existing
schoolhouse building, is dominated by several large trees, the property is more closely related
to forest than it is to agriculture given there is no cultivation on the property.

5. There are no physical development limitations which would cause the area to be
hazardous for development; and

Applicant: The subject property has no physical limitations which would cause it to be
hazardous for development. The site has been fully developed since 1886 without exhibiting
any development hazards.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s proposed finding.
This criterion generally refers to natural physical limitations and hazards such as steep or
unstable slopes, flood zones and the like. County GIS data do not reveal any of these types of
hazards.

6. Limited, but adequate, services must be available for the area, including those
provided on-site (water and subsurface sewage disposal), as well as off-site (school,
fire, police).

Applicant: Since the Cedar School was originally constructed the subject property has received
water from an onsite domestic well while sewage has been handled through onsite subsurface
sewage disposal. These facilities continue to provide safe, reliable service to the site.
The subject property lies within Multnomah County Rural Fire District #10 which contracts
with the City of Gresham for fire service; thus, fire service is provided by nearby Gresham. The
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 34 of 43
closest fire station is located near Kane Drive and SE Division Street in Gresham --
approximately three miles from the subject property. Gresham Fire has certified that the
subject property is in compliance with the fire apparatus access standards of the Oregon Fire
Code as implemented by them. (See Exhibit C, Fire Service Agency Review Form with Revised
Review Comments, October 30, 2019)
Police service is provided by the Multnomah County Sheriff’s Department, which has offices
nearby in the City of Troutdale.
The property is within the Gresham-Barlow school district although the closest elementary
school (Sweetbriar Elementary) is located less than a mile from the property and is within the
Reynolds school district.
Provision of these various services is further grounds for designating the site as Rural
Residential.
Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s description of adequate services,
as clarified herein. In particular, staff notes that the condition of the on-site sanitation system
has not been confirmed by the County Sanitarian. If the zone change is approved, the property
owner will be required to comply with DEQ rules pertaining to on-site sanitation systems prior
to issuance of permits to allow the residential use of the property and/or any associated home
occupations. Limited, but adequate, services are available or can be made available to serve the
site. This criterion is met.

2.6 Protect farmland and forest land from encroachment by residential and other non-
farm or non-forest uses that locate in the RR zone.

Applicant: Granting the request to zone this property RR will not result in encroachment by a
nonfarm use on nearby farmland. This fully-developed, nonfarm parcel has been in existence
for over 100 years without having any adverse impacts on those farmlands. Because of the
extensive mature landscaping along its entire perimeter, there is a clear separation between
the subject property and adjacent farmlands which affords protection of those farmlands from
current or future non-farm use encroachment. RR zoning of this property will not result in
encroachment upon adjacent farmland.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding.

2.7 Ensure that new, replacement, or expanding uses in the RR zone minimize impacts to
farm and forest land by requiring recordation of a covenant that recognizes the rights of
adjacent farm and forestry practices.

Applicant: There is currently no recorded covenant of this nature.  The applicant does not
object to a requirement for such a covenant if this rezone application is approved.

Staff Finding: The criterion is applied when new, replacement, or expanding uses are
proposed for existing RR zoned properties. If the property is rezoned to RR, the ‘farm and
forest covenant’ will be required to be recorded prior to and as part of any separate approval for
any new, replacement, or expanded uses.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 35 of 43
2.8 New non-agricultural businesses should be limited in scale and type to serve the needs
of the local rural area.

Applicant: The owner/occupant of the property runs a small photography business out of the
home. The photography business includes an office and a studio where customers can be
photographed.

The applicant understands that continued operation of this business requires a County Home
Occupation permit and fully intends to seek this permit if the rezone application is approved
and the residence is legitimized. The application process for the Home Occupation will
establish the appropriate nature and scale of this business in order for it to satisfy this policy.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with and adopts the applicant’s proposed finding. The RR zone
provides for home based occupations that are limited in scale and type. If zone is changed to
RR, the applicant may apply for a Home Occupation permit and will be subject to the
limitations set forth in the Home Occupation approval criteria.

Strategy 2.8-1: Review the appropriateness of review uses, conditional uses and
community service uses in the RR zone through a public process that involves community
stakeholders prior to amending the Zoning Code.
Applicant: This rezone application entails a public process that includes public hearings
before the County Planning Commission and County Board of Commissioners. Notification of
these hearings will be sent to surrounding property owners and other community stakeholders
on record with the County. A sign will also be posted on the property to alert the general
public about the rezone request. Public comment will be solicited and taken throughout this
process to record both support and opposition to the rezone request as well as any concerns it
raises. Through this public process the appropriateness of the various types of allowed uses in
the RR zone will be fully evaluated and considered in the final decision to amend the zoning.

Staff Finding: This strategy is applicable to Zoning Code amendments only. Strategy 2.8-1 is
not applicable to this application for a zone change because it does not involve an amendment
to the Zoning Code.

5.03 Historic Resources (page 6-8 of the Comprehensive Plan)
The following policies and strategies direct the County to continue to recognize significant
historic resources and to implement strategies to protect them, including the adaptive
reuse of historic structures where such reuse can increase the ability of properties to
maintain their condition and historic value.
Applicant: The following policies are relevant to this comprehensive plan map
amendment/rezone application because the property contains a historic building – Cedar
School --- constructed in 1927.  Although the building is no longer used as a school, it retains
historic significance for the community.

The current owner/occupant is actively engaged in preserving the building’s historical
integrity. During development of the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan in 2016, the
property owner engaged in an online petition drive to garner community support for her effort
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 36 of 43
to preserve Cedar School, as well as support for preservation of historic sites in general. That
petition drive resulted in nearly 500 signatures on the owner’s Facebook page. In a strong
show of support for her cause, the Troutdale Historic Society obtained 22 personal signatures
for her petition. (See Exhibit F-4, petition and signatures)

Staff Finding: Staff concurs with, adopts, and supplements the applicant’s proposed finding.
The historical schoolhouse and property are a community asset worthy of protection and
maintenance. The proposed zone change to RR supports the goal of maintaining the historic
resource because the ability for a property owner to live and work on the property is more
likely to result in upkeep of the property. If the property remained in the EFU zone, it would be
more difficult for a property owner to gain approval for residential use of the property because
a dwelling is not an outright permitted use and it is unlikely that a 0.93 acre EFU property
could qualify for a dwelling.

6.1 Recognize significant historic resources and apply appropriate historic preservation
measures to all designated historic sites.
Strategy 6.1-1: Maintain an inventory of significant historic resources which meet the
historical site criteria:
1) Historical Significance - Property is associated with significant past events,
personages, trends or values, and has the capacity to evoke one or more of the
dominant themes of national or local history.
2) Architectural Significance (Rarity of Type and/or Style) - Property is a prime
example of a stylistic or structural type, or is representative of a type once
common and is among the last examples surviving in the County. Property is a
prototype or significant work of an architect, builder or engineer noted in the
history of architecture and construction in Multnomah County.
3) Environmental Considerations - Current land use surrounding the property
contributes to an aura of the historic period, or property defines important space.
4) Physical Integrity - Property is essentially as constructed on original site.
Sufficient original workmanship and material remain to serve as instruction in
period fabrication.
5) Symbolic Value - Through public interest, sentiment, uniqueness or other
factors, property has come to connote an ideal, institution, political entity or
period.
6) Chronology - Property was developed early in the relative scale of local history
or was an early expression of type/style.
Applicant: Multnomah County has recognized Cedar School as a historic resource since the
County’s first historic and cultural resource inventory was conducted in 1976 for the State
Historic Preservation Office. Two years later the County planning staff conducted a limited
survey of historic resources which resulted in the adoption of an ordinance in 1980 which
officially designated 18 historic resources within the unincorporated County. Although the
ordinance did not include Cedar School among the 18 sites, it remained on the County’s
inventory of historic properties.
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 37 of 43

In 1988 the County contracted with a planning consulting firm to conduct a comprehensive
historic resource survey of rural unincorporated Multnomah County. The resulting report
issued in September 1990 identified 68 historic resources. Once again Cedar School was
included in the inventory because it is “a singular example of a historic period revival style,
(and) is a handsome composition of brick ornamented with glazed terra cotta.” (Multnomah
County Historic Context Statement, September 1990, p.51) The report’s Statement of
Significance for Cedar School states that “(T)he building is an excellent example of
Mediterranean style architecture suggesting that it may have been designed by Herman
Brookman or other prominent architect.  .. The building is the only known specimen of this
historic building type in unincorporated Multnomah County.” (See Exhibit F-2, Cedar School
Statement of Significance)

The report went on further to say that “(B)ecause of the scarcity of rural schoolhouses, and the
important role they played as focal points for the social life of small communities they should
be given careful consideration for designation (as historic resources).” (p. 54)

Cedar School deserves to be recognized as a significant historic resource because it meets all
the above listed historical site criteria.

Staff Finding: Staff concurs that the property is recognized by Multnomah County as a
historic resource (Exhibit B.5).

Strategy 6.1-2: Use the National Register of Historic Places, the Oregon Historic Sites
Database and local historical society databases in compiling an inventory of historic
resources.
Applicant: The property is included in the Oregon Historic Sites Database as well as the
Troutdale Historical Society inventory. These two inventories were the bases for the County
including it in its own inventory conducted in 1976. The property is not, however, on the
National Register of Historic Places.

In 1978 the previous owners of the property, Timothy and Gail O’Neill, applied to have the
property listed on the National Register of Historic Places. That request was evaluated by the
Oregon State Board for Historical Preservation but was denied on a split vote. Notes from that
decision state that despite its name, the Board at that time was not particularly interested in
history, but rather, emphasized architecture as its principal interest. Those notes further
disclose that the majority of the Board members did not feel the building was compelling
enough architecturally to merit designation nor did they believe the building was old enough to
justify historic significance (it was only 51 years old at the time). The Board was also put off by
alterations that had been made to the building, such as residential use of the rear wing, some
window replacements, and a greenhouse added to the rear elevation. The property owners
were encouraged to resubmit their nomination with advice on what to include in order to
strengthen the application. There is no record that they tried again to be listed on the National
register.

Staff Finding: This strategy is applicable when the County compiles or updates its own
database of historic resources. Strategy 6.1-2 is not applicable to this application for a zone
change.
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 38 of 43

Strategy 6.1-3: Develop and maintain a historical preservation program for
Multnomah County which includes:
1) A review of, and compliance with, the laws related to historic preservation.
2) Ongoing identification and inventory of significant sites, working with area
citizens groups, local historical societies, the Oregon Historical Society, the State
Historic Preservation Office, the Oregon Natural History Museum and other
historic and archeological associations.
3) Developing a handbook on historic preservation to assist County staff, area
citizen groups, land owners, and developers in understanding and using applicable
federal and state programs.
4) Fostering, through ordinances or other means, the private restoration and
maintenance of historic structures for compatible uses and development based on
historic values.
5) Encouraging the installation of appropriate plaques or markers on identified
sites and structures.
Applicant: To the applicant’s knowledge the County has not enacted a comprehensive
historical preservation program which encompasses the various measures outlined in this
policy strategy. The lack of such a program leaves the owners of historical properties in
Multnomah County on their own to pursue ways to maintain and restore these sites. This is the
challenge the current owner of Cedar School is facing as she struggles to keep the nearly
century-old building in good repair so that it continues to be a showcase for the surrounding
community’s heritage.

Staff Finding: This strategy primarily directs Multnomah County to develop and maintain a
historical preservation program and therefore is not relevant to this application for a zone
change.
Sub-strategy 4) directs the County to foster ‘through ordinances and other means’ the private
restoration and maintenance of historic structures for compatible uses and development based
on historic values. Staff supports the proposed zone change to RR in part because the RR zone
is more conducive to maintaining the historic schoolhouse and property by allowing the
property owners to seek approval to live onsite and maintain the historic structure.

Strategy 6.1-4: The Zoning Code should:
1) Amend the Historic Preservation overlay district to include a process for the
owner of a historic resource to obtain a historic landmark designation.

2) Amend the Historic Preservation overlay district to provide opportunities for
owners of historic landmarks to preserve and maintain the resource by allowing as
conditional uses, where possible, a use which can be shown to contribute to the
preservation and reuse of the historic landmark.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 39 of 43
3) Provide for a 120-day delay period for the issuance of a demolition permit or a
building permit that substantially alters the historic nature of a historic landmark.
During this period, a review of the land use permit application to demolish or
substantially alter, including the impacts and possible means to offset the impacts,
would be undertaken.

Applicant: The County’s Historic Preservation Overlay (HP) zoning district has not yet been
applied to the subject property. The property owner desires to obtain this overlay zoning to
recognize and acknowledge the site’s historic significance and to afford her additional
opportunities to preserve it.

Item 2 of this strategy was the direct outcome of public input provided during preparation of
the new County Comprehensive Plan adopted in September 2016. This strategy item was
determined to be a critical element for owners of historic properties seeking a source of income
to assist with upkeep and maintenance of aging historic buildings. The applicant was among
the historic preservation advocates who appealed to the County to include this strategy item in
the Comprehensive Plan in order to influence action on this important historic preservation
measure. Unfortunately, the County has not yet acted to amend the HP overlay district as
called for in this strategy; so permitted, review and conditional uses of historic properties are
limited to those listed in the underlining base zone. (See Exhibit F-3, Gresham Outlook article,
April 24, 2015)

Staff Finding: Strategy 6.1-4 directs the County to ensure the Zoning Code aligns with the
listed sub-strategies but is not applicable to the application for a zone change. Future Code
Updates to the HP standards of the Zoning Code will be required to consider relevant
Comprehensive Plan Policies including Strategy 6.1-4. The property owner has not yet applied
for the HP designation, so standards for applying the HP overlay are not applicable to this
application.

6.00 Summary of Public Comments

The applicant has submitted eight letters (A.1.4.E) in support of the application including neighboring
farmers, The City of Troutdale, and the Troutdale Historical Society. Any additional comments received
by staff prior to the Planning Commission hearing will be submitted into the record at the hearing.

7.00 Recommended Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment

Staff Finding: The applicant has proposed to amend the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan to
recognize the zone change from EFU to RR and the associated Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands) exception. If
approved, the zone change shall be reflected in the Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan’s Zoning
Map and shall include that portion of SE Troutdale Road adjacent to the subject property. Additionally,
Staff recommends amending the Comprehensive Plan’s Administration Section (Page xi) to reflect any
order adopted by the Board of County Commissioners to amend the Comprehensive Plan to change the
zone of the subject property. The Administration Section is intended to catalogue adopted documents
amending the Plan. No additional text amendments to the Comprehensive Plan are required for this zone
change.

Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 40 of 43
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend that the Board approve this application and
incorporate the amendments to the Comprehensive Plan’s Zoning Map and the Administration Section,
documenting the approved zone change goal exception, as outlined in the Planning Commission Order.

8.00 Conclusion

Based on the findings and other information provided above, the applicant has carried the burden
necessary for an exception to statewide planning Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands), and a Comprehensive Plan
Amendment, to authorize a zone change from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential (RR) on a
0.93 acre property at 2326 SE Troutdale Road (Township 1 South, Range 3 East, Section 01C, Tax Lot
01200, WM.) in east rural Multnomah County.

9.00 Exhibits
‘A’ Applicant’s Exhibits
‘B’ Staff Exhibits
‘C’ Comments Received
Exhibits are available for review in Case File T4-2019-12624 at the Land Use Planning office.

Exhi
bit #
 # of
Pag
es
Description of Exhibit
Date
Received /
Submitted
A.1 54 Applicant’s Submittal 10.31.2019
A.1.1 1 General Application Form signed by Colleen Cahill 10.31.2019
A.1.2 2 Multnomah County Department of Assessment, Recording, and
Assessment Property Data sheet 10.31.2019
A.1.3 23 Applicant’s Narrative Addressing Approval Criteria 10.31.2019
A.1.4 1 Applicant’s List of Exhibits 10.31.2019
A.1.4
.A 3
Aerial Photos of Subject Property – referenced by applicant as Exhibits
A-1through A-3:

A-1: Site Map
A-2: Site Map with Building Setbacks
A-3: Vicinity Map
10.31.2019
A.1.4
.B 1 Floor Plan of Existing Residence 10.31.2019
A.1.4
.C 2 Fire Service Agency Review Form and Revised Fire Agency Comments 10.31.2019
A.1.4
.D 1 Certification of Water Service Signed by Colleen Cahill 10.31.2019
A.1.4
.E 8
Supporting Letters:

E-1: Bob Baker (1 pg)

10.31.2019
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 41 of 43
E-2: Fujji Farms (1 pg)

E-3: Daniel Strebin and The Strebin Family (1 pg)

E-4: Dan and Jolene Cox (1 pg)

E-5: Open Door Baptist Church; signed by Jason Stamper, Pastor (1 pg)

E-6: Troutdale Historical Society; signed by Erin Janssens, President
(1pg)

E-7: Sharon Nesbit (1 pg)

E-8: City of Troutdale; signed by Ray Young, City Manager (1 pg)
A.1.4
.F 6
Historical Resources:

F-1: Information Sheet on Cedar School, Troutdale Historical Society,
April 1979 (1pg)

F-2: Statement of Significance for Cedar School, Multnomah County
Historic Context Statement, September 1990 (2 pgs)

F-3: Newspaper article on efforts to preserve Cedar School, Gresham
Outlook, April 24, 2015 (1 pg)

F-4: Petition of “Those Who Value the Preservation of Historic Sites”
Cover Sheet and Signature Sheet (2 pgs)

10.31.2019
A.1.4
.G 6
Lot of Record Status (includes 1 pg. narrative):

G-1: Survey 40027, filed with Multnomah County Survey Dept. on Dec.
12, 1976 (1 pg)

G-2: Legal Description from Title Insurance documents related to sale of
the property from William Rogers to Timothy C. and Gail J. O’Neil dated
May 23, 1978 (1 pg)

G-3: Legal Description of the property from a 1992 Bargain and Sale
Deed between Timothy O’Neil and Sean O’Neil, recorded in Book 2587,
Page 256 Multnomah County Deed Records (1 pg)

G-4: Legal Description of the property from a 1994 Bargain and Sale
Deed between Sean O’Neil and Timothy O’Neil (1 pg)

G-5: Legal Description of the property from a 2013 mortgage security
instrument between Nationstar Mortgage LLC and Colleen Cahill (1 pg)
10.31.2019
A.2 1 Property owner letter of authorization 11.20.2019
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 42 of 43
A.3 2 Original 1886 property deed 12.11.2019
A.4 1 Letter from applicant explaining decision to ‘deem’ the application
complete 12.11.2019
A.5 1 Applicant's Completeness Response 12.112019 12.11.2019

‘B’ # Staff Exhibits Date
B.1 5 Lot of Record Info from DART 11.09.2019
B.2 3 'Incomplete' Letter 11.27.2019 11.27.2019
B.3 1 'Complete' Acknowledgement Letter 01.22.2020 01.22.2020
B.4 2 Transportation Completeness Memo 11.29.2019
B.5 5 Multnomah County Historical Resources Survey 12.19.2019
B.6 5 Multnomah County Zoning Map 04.07.2020
B.7 6 History of Land Use Planning 04.07.2020
B.8 1 East County Zoning - Multnomah Comp Plan 04.07.2020
B.9 1 1962-11-15 Earliest Zoning Map 04.13.2020
B.10 18 1975-12-9 Zoning Ordinance 115 04.13.2020
B.11 1 1977 Zone Map Ord. 149 04.13.2020
B.12 71 1977-9-6 Zoning Ordinance 148 04.13.2020
B.13 3 1980-7-15 Ordinance 238 04.13.2020
B.14 2 Description of adjacent farm property submitted by Collen Cahill with
attached letter from Ray Fujji who leases the farmland from Baker. 06.09.2020
B.15 2
USDA Farm Data for Multnomah County
Source:
www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/AgCensus/2017/Online_Resources/Cou
nty_Profiles/Oregon/cp41051.pdf
Accessed 06.10.2020
06.10.2020
B.16 7
Oregon Timber Harvest Regulations
Source: https://oregonforests.org/Harvest_Regulations
Accessed 06.10.2020
06.10.2020
B.17 3
Oregon Timber Harvest Information
Source: Associated Oregon Loggers
https://www.oregonloggers.org/Forest_facts_HarvestData.aspx#:~:text=H
owever%2C%20more%20than%20three%2Dquarters,is%2040%2D60%2
0acres).
06.10.2020
B.18 1 1979 Oregonian article about conversion of the schoolhouse to artist
space and dwelling use. 06.10.2020
Case Files: T4-2019-12624 and EP-2019-12704 Page 43 of 43
B.19 1 Vicinity Map 06.11.2020
B.20 2
NRCS Soil Description
Source:
https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_MANUSCRIPTS/oregon/OR05
1/0/or051_text.pdf
Accessed 06.11.2020
06.11.2020
B.21 1 Soils Map 06.11.2020
B.22 3 Transportation Memo Revised 6.15.20 06.15.2020

Beaver
Tax Lot ID
1N4E31C
-00900
Tax Lot ID 1N4E31CC
-01400
Tax Lot ID
1N4E31CC
-01600
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01DA
-03800
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01DB
-07000
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01DB
-07100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01DB
-07200
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01AD
-00100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01AD
-00200
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01AD
-00201
T ax Lot ID
1S3E01AD
-00300
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01
-00500
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-00100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-00800
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C -00900
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01000
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01002
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01003
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01004
T ax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01100
T ax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01200
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01C
-01300
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01AA
-00300
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01AA
-00400T ax Lot ID
1S3E01AA
-00500
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01AA
-00700
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01CC
-00100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-00100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-00200
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-00300
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-00500
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-00700 Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-00800
T ax Lot ID
1S3E01D -01000
Tax Lot ID
1S3E01D -01100
T ax Lot ID
1S3E01D
-01200
Tax Lot ID
1S3E12A -00100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E12A -00800
Tax Lot ID
1S3E12B
-00100
Tax Lot ID
1S3E12B
-00800
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06B
-00100
Tax Lot
ID 1S4E06B
-00200
T ax Lot ID
1S4E06BB
-00800
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BB
-00900T ax Lot ID
1S4E06BB -01000
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BB
-01200
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BB -01201
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BB -01300
Tax Lot
ID 1S4E06BB -01400
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BB
-01500
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BB
-01600
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC -00100
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC -00200
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC -00300
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC -00400
T ax Lot ID 1S4E06BC
-00500
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC
-00800 Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC
-00900
T ax Lot ID
1S4E06BC
-01000
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BC
-01600
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06BD
-00800
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06C
-00100
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06C
-00300
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06C
-00400
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06C
-00500
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06C
-00800
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06C
-00900
T ax Lot ID 1S4E06CA
-00300
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06CA
-00400
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06CB
-00101
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06CB
-00102
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06CB
-00103
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06CB
-00104
Tax Lot ID
1S4E06CB
-00106
Tax Lot ID
1S4E07B
-00200
Tax Lot ID
1S4E07B -00300
Tax Lot ID
1S4E07B -00400
Tax Lot ID
1S4E07B -00500
NE DIVISION ST
SE
PELTON
AVE
N
E
PALOM
A
AVE
NE
KANE
DR
SE 30TH CT
SE 33RD ST
SE STREBIN RD
SE
STOTTAVE
SE SANDY DELL RD
NE
G
REENW
AY
DR
SE SWEETBRIAR RD
SESW
EETBRIAR
LN
SE
VIEW
POINTDR
NE
CENTURION
DR
NE 29TH ST
SE STARK ST
S TROUTDALE RD
SE 40TH ST
SE
TROUTDALE
RD
SE 43RD
DR
SEEVANS
AVE
NE 11TH WAY
SE 34TH CIR
SE
TOPAZCT
SE
ALTHAUS
DR
SE48TH ST
NE 17TH ST
NE 15TH ST
NESCOTT
CT
SETOPAZDR
SE 32ND ST
SE 34TH
CIR
NE 13TH
TER
SE
KERSLAKE RD
NE 1 6TH
CT
SE 36TH ST
NEHACIENDA
CT
SELENORE
CIR
SE
HELEN
CT
SE
JONES
LN
SE
STO
TTCIR
SE
CLARK
CT
SE 46TH AVE
NE
LA
M
ESA
PL
NE BARNES LN
SE COCHRAN RD
S
E
48TH PL
SE 35TH CIR
SEDOUGLASCT
SE
LE
WIS
C
T
SE
JENNIFER
CT
SE 42ND CIR
SE
BLAKE
PL
SE KIB LING
CT
SE
HARLOW
CT
SE 42NDST
SE DORA CT
SE SANDY
CIR
DRIVEW
AY
M
T
HOOD
CC
NE
HACIENDA
AVE
N
E
LA
M
ESA
AVE
SE 35THST
SE 282ND DR
SE
HAM PT ON
LOOP
E
HISTORIC
COLUM
BIA
RIVER
HW
Y
SE STREBIN RD
Troutdale
Gresham
RR
EFU
MUA20
CFU
GGO
GGR5
Multnomah County Official Zoning Map For Section: 1S3E-1
(SZM #592, 597, 598)
®
0 1,000 2,000500
Feet
Location Map
Ordinance Number:
Adopted On:
Page 1-101
Legend
National Scenic Area Boundary
Taxlot Boundary
Roads/Highways
Multnomah County Land Use Planning
Exhibit 2
Clackamas
County
Hood River
County
Skamania
County
Clark County
Stark Street
Halsey Street
257th/Kane Drive
Glisan Street
Orient Drive
Lusted Road
Woodard Road
BrowerRoad
Troutdale
Road
Sundial Road
Telford Road
Bluff Road
Marine Drive
Evans
Road
Division Drive
223rd Avenue
OxbowDrive
Hurlburt Road
302nd Avenue
Dodge Park Boulevard
Gordon
Creek
Road
LarchMountain Road
ß/30
ß/26
vÍÎ212
vÍÎ211
vÍÎ224
§¨¦
84
[0 2 41
Miles
Date:
Disclaimer:
Unofficial depiction, for illustrative purposes only.
Coordinate System:
NAD 1983 HARN State Plane Oregon North FIPS 3601
County Boundaries
Subareas
ZONE
CFU3
RC
Columbia River
Gorge
GGA; GSA
GGC
GGCR; GGPR; GSPR
GGF; GSF
GGO; GSO
GGR; GSR
GGRC
Interlachen
LR10
LR5 (overwater zone)
LR7
Pleasant Valley
C3
LM
RR
UF20
West of Sandy
River Zoning
CFU
EFU
MUA20
OCI
OR
PHRC
RR
East of Sandy
River
CFU3
CFU4
EFU
MUA20
RC
RR
Government
Island and
Bonneville
CFU
CFU3
RC
Multnomah County
Zoning
East Multnomah County
Figure 2-2 Multnomah County Zoning Map
Exhibit 2
Stark Street
Halsey Street
257th/Kane Drive
Glisan Street
Orient Drive
Lusted Road
Woodard Road
BrowerRoad
Troutdale
Road
Sundial Road
Telford Road
Bluff Road
Marine Drive
Evans
Road
Division Drive
223rd Avenue
OxbowDrive
Hurlburt Road
302nd Avenue
Dodge Park Boulevard
Gordon
Creek
Road
LarchMountain Road
ß/30
ß/26
vÍÎ212
vÍÎ211
vÍÎ224
§¨¦
84
Clackamas
County
Hood River
County
Skamania
County
Clark County
[0 2 41
Miles
Date:
Disclaimer:
Unofficial depiction, for illustrative purposes only.
Coordinate System:
NAD 1983 HARN State Plane Oregon North FIPS 3601
County Boundaries
Farm Use Zones
EFU
MUA20
Subareas
Farm Use Zones
East Multnomah County
Figure 3-3 - Multnomah County Farm Use Zoning
Exhibit 2
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan vii
APPENDICES
APPENDIX
A Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map (T he Multnomah County Zoning Map, as
most recently amended through Multnomah County Ordinance 1194 Order_ _ _,
serves as the statutorily-required comprehensive plan map for this
Comprehensive Plan)
B Glossary of Terms
C Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel Rural Area Plan (September 2015)
D Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Rural Area Plan Policy Document
E Multnomah County Transportation System Plan
Exhibit 3
Administration
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan xi
ADOPTED AMENDMENTS
EFFECTIVE
DATE ORD # AMENDMENT TOPIC
April 4, 2019 Order
2019-025
Approving exception to Statewide Planning Goal 11 to extend
public sewer service outside the Urban Growth Boundary to the
property located at 5105 SE 302nd Ave., Gresham, Oregon
Order
2020-_ _ _
Exhibit 3
Page 2 of 4
Approving an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3
(Agricultural
Lands), and an amendment to the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan and the Multnomah County
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map, to rezone the Property
located in East Rural Multnomah County at 2326 SE Troutdale
Road
and that portion of SE Troutdale Road adjacent to the
subject property extending to the road center line from
Exclusive
Farm Use (EFU) to Rural Residential (RR).
  Farm Land
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Farm Land  | 3-2

INTRODUCTION/BACKGROUND   INFORMATION
Significant amount of the land in the rural portions of Multnomah County is
zoned and used for agricultural production. One of the original, primary goals
of Oregon’s statewide planning program is to protect existing farm land for
future agricultural use. Towards that end, state and local plans, policies, and
laws put a premium on designating specific areas for “exclusive farm use,”
limiting non-farm uses in these areas and
minimizing conflicts between farm and non-
farm uses. State laws significantly restrict the
ability to subdivide land or build new non-farm
buildings in areas zoned for exclusive farm use.
Specific types of farm-related uses, such
as farm stands, wineries, and “agri-tourism”
events can help provide additional
economic opportunities for farmers but also
can create conflicts with adjacent farm
owners and rural residents. As a result,
they have been the subject of specific state
legislation and local planning requirements.
This chapter provides an overview of conditions and planning issues
associated with farm land, along with Comprehensive Plan policies and
strategies to address them.
Farm Land Conditions
Agricultural zoning and farm uses are a major component of the fabric of rural
Multnomah County. Farm uses are the second largest land use and account
for 30,4387 acres or 23% of all land in rural Multnomah County.
Table 3-1 – Primary land use based on zoning in Multnomah County

ZONE ACRES % OF ALL LANDS
Forestry (CFU, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5) 98,841 74%
Farming (EFU and MUA20) 30,4387 23%
Rural Residential (RR) 3,5134 3%
Rural Center (OR, RC, OCI, and PHRC) 322 0%
TOTAL 133,076144 100%
“Those who live on, work on, and
visit Sauvie Island, value the Island’s
productive farm land, which
provides fresh food for both locals
and the region.”
- Sauvie Island/Multnomah Channel
Vision Statement
Exhibit 3
  Forest Land
Multnomah County Comprehensive Plan Forest Land  | 4-3

Table 4-1 - Primary Land Use Based on Zoning in Multnomah County

ZONE ACRES % OF ALL
LAND
Forestry (CFU 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5) 98,841 74%
Farming (EFU and MUA20) 30,4387 23%
Rural Residential (RR) 3,5134 3%
Rural Center (OR, RC, OCI, and PHRC) 322 0%

Relevant Studies and Planning Processes
A variety of state, regional, and local plans and policies are relevant to land
use planning in Multnomah County, including the following.
Oregon Statewide Planning Goal 4, Forest Lands, requires counties to
inventory forest lands and adopt policies and ordinances that will conserve
forest lands for forest uses. Associated statutes and administrative rules are
found in ORS Chapter 215 and OAR Chapter 660, Division 6.
The State Forest Practices Act establishes rules and standards for timber
management and harvesting. Counties cannot impose zoning restrictions
that conflict with these forest practice rules unless a county adopts its own
comprehensive forest practices ordinance in place of the State’s which has
not been done in Multnomah County.
Multnomah County’s Past Rural Area Plans include background information
and policies related to forest land that have been incorporated in this Plan.
Multnomah County’s Zoning Code contains a Commercial Forest Use
zoning district which specifies allowed and conditional uses that support and
protect forestry practices throughout the County. There are currently six CFU
zones applied throughout the County (CFU and CFU 1-5) with slight variations
to each zone.

TOTAL 133,076144 100%
Exhibit 3
Page 1 of 2 - Order
BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
ORDER NO. T4-2019-12624
Recommending to the Board of County Commissioners approval of an exception to
Statewide Planning Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands), and an amendment to the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan, to authorize a zone change from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU)
to Rural Residential (RR) on the property located at 2326 SE Troutdale Road in east rural
Multnomah County.
The Multnomah County Planning Commission Finds:
a. The Planning Commission is authorized by Multnomah County Code Chapter 39.1645
and 39.1105(D), and by ORS 215.406, to conduct hearings on Type IV applications,
including recommending to the Board of County Commissi oners approval of
applications that require amendments to the County Comprehensive Plan.
b. Statewide Planning Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands) limits the ability to establish residential
uses on EFU-zoned land. Properties zoned EFU generally are eligible for a single-
family dwelling only if the dwelling will be used in conjunction with farm use,  with
limited exceptions.
c. The 0.93-acre subject property, which is located at 2326 SE Troutdale Road within
the EFU zone, has not been farmed for over 100 years, and may never have been
farmed. The subject property is developed with a structure built in 1927 as a
schoolhouse, which was converted into a residence in the 1970s. Today, the structure
is being used as a residence and photography studio. However, neither the residential
use nor the phot ography studio use has received land use or building permit
approvals. As currently used, the structure  does not qualify for  approval as a
residential use in the EFU zone. As a result, the applicant is seeking an exception to
Goal 3 to change the zone from EFU to RR as the first step in the process of obtaining
the necessary land use and building permit approvals for the structure.
d. In the event of approval of a Goal exception, State law requires the County to
document such approval through amendment of the Mult nomah County
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Map.
e. Not
ice of the Planning Commission hearing was mailed to all part ies consistent with
county noticing requirements. Notice was also published in the Oregonian newspaper
and on the website of the Multnomah County Land Use Planning Program. The
Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposal on July 6, 2020, during
which all interested persons were given the opportunity to appear and be heard.
f. It
 is in the public interest to approve the application in T4-2019-12624 based on the
findings of fact, reasons, and conditions of approval set forth in the staff report
attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
The P
lanning Commission Orders:
Exhibit 4
Page 2 of 2 - Order
1. The findings of fact and statement of reasons contained in the T4-2019-12624 staff
report, attached hereto as Exhibit 1, demonstrate that the standards for an
exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3  have been met and, therefore, are
recommended for adoption by the Board of County Commissioners.
2. The exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 requested through T4-2019-12624 is
recommended for approval by the Board of County Commissioners, subject to the
conditions stated in the T4-2019-12624 staff report.
3. If the Board of County Commissioners approves the application in T4-2019-12624,
the Planning Commission recommends that the Board amend the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan to document and incorporate the exception, including
the findings of facts and statement of reasons  adopted by the Board that
demonstrate that the standards for an exception have been met, as follows:
[Formatting Note: The table below amends the ‘Administration’ section of the Multnomah
County Comprehensive Plan, (page xi). Double underlined text is new.]
Administration
Adopted Amendments
Effective Date ORD # Amendment Topic
(placeholder
for effective
Board
adoption date)
(placeholder
for effective
Board order
number)
Approving exception to Statewide
Planning Goal 3 to change the zoning
from Exclusive Farm Use to Rural
Residential on property located at 2326
SE Troutdale Road in east rural
Multnomah County
AD
OPTED this 6th day of July, 2020.
P
LANNING COMMISSION
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
___
_______________________________
John Ingle, Chair
Exhibit 4