BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2026-012
Resolution Establishing Policies for the House Bill 4002 Deflection Program.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. Substance use disorders (SUD) - including co-occurring disorders, which are
marked by having both a mental illness and a substance use disorder - affect all
communities in Multnomah County.
B. The Multnomah Board of County Commissioners agree with best practice and
evidence that deflecting people with drug possession from jail is a more effective
strategy to ending their addiction while promoting public safety and that the
County’s HB 4002 Deflection Program should be continuously improved upon to
achieve better treatment and recovery outcomes for deflected people.
C. The Multnomah County Board of County Commissioners believes recovery is
possible, that recovery is for everyone and that the County leads with this
approach. With commitment and support, people who have substance use or
co-occurring disorders can lead rewarding lives in recovery.
D. The Oregon State Legislature passed House Bill 4002 (HB 4002) in 2024 which
recriminalized the possession of a personal amount of illegal controlled
substances and encouraged counties to establish local programs to deflect
people from jail to treatment services and passed House Bill 3069 (HB 3069) in
2025 which defines “successful outcome” as “an outcome that recognizes that
recovery pathways are necessarily individual and that is measured in
engagement in case management services and improvements in quality of life
stability factors and public safety.”
E. Since September 1, 2024, Multnomah County has chosen to operate a law
enforcement-initiated deflection program that has received grant funding from the
state’s Criminal Justice Commission (CJC), in accordance with HB 4002 and HB
3069.
F. In order to qualify as an eligible HB 4002 and HB 3069 deflection program, the
deflection program must be coordinated by or in consultation with a Community
Mental Health Program, a Local Mental Health Authority, or federally recognized
Tribal Government and Multnomah County qualifies as a Community Mental
Health Program and Local Mental Health Authority. The Multnomah Board of
County Commissioners serves as the Local Mental Health Authority.
G. HB 4002 and HB 3069 require county applicants to coordinate with at least a
district attorney, a law enforcement agency, a community mental health program,
and a provider from a Behavioral Health Resource Network. Partners may also
include a treatment provider, local mental health authority, tribal government, a
peer support organization, a court or a local government body, a first responder
agency other than a law enforcement agency; a community provider; a
community-based organization; a case management provider; a recovery support
services provider; or any other individual or entity deemed necessary by the
program coordinator to carry out the purposes of the deflection program,
including individuals with lived experience with substance use disorder, a
behavioral health disorder or co-occurring disorders.
H. HB 3069 specifically states that “the commission shall additionally make grants to
counties for programs that are designed to reduce recidivism and substance use
disorders and that are guided by evidence-based and, if applicable, tribal-based
practices, risk and clinical assessment tools or other research-based
considerations.”
I. Multnomah County opened the temporary Coordinated Care Pathway Center
(Pathway Center), located at 989 S.E. Pine St., October 14, 2024, initially for law
enforcement to drop off people eligible for the deflection program and now to
expanded provider partners.
J. Multnomah County operates mobile deflection in Gresham through a community
based organization.
K. At the end of April 2025, the County added 13 temporary sobering stations in the
Multnomah County’s Coordinated Care Pathway Center. Coordinated Care
Pathway Center sobering and deflection services will transition to the permanent
facility once it opens.
L. The Multnomah County Health Department’s Behavioral Health Division
implements the County’s deflection program and contracts for services provided
in the Pathway Center.
M. Additionally, the Portland Police Bureau, Gresham Police Department,
Multnomah County Sheriff, District Attorney, and Department of Community
Justice have roles in the County’s deflection program and the Homeless Services
Department and Health Department have the critical, integral role connecting
and/or providing individuals with emergency shelter, housing placement supports,
and behavioral health services.
N. In year one, according to the Health Department’s Deflection Program Annual
Report October 15, 2025, there were 606 visits to the deflection program, 520
unique individuals, and 392 individuals voluntarily remained at the Pathway
Center to be referred to services. Of those, 127 service referrals accessed by
clients were for substance use disorder and recovery support services, including
20 people accessed detox/withdrawal management and 92% of people who went
to the deflection center self-identified as being homeless.
O. There is service co-location at the Pathway Center for the deflection program
which is separate from sobering services that deflection program participants
may be referred to. Entering the deflection program has specific eligibility criteria
as established by the HB 4002 Leadership Team. Onsite services may be an
appropriate next step for deflection program participants and is based on a
coordinated care plan.
P. The County is currently developing and is slated to bring online a permanent 24/7
Sobering and Crisis Stabilization Center at an acquired property located at 1901
S.E. Grand Ave., in accordance with the December 2024 24/7 Sobering and
Crisis Stabilization Center Plan, which includes moving the deflection program
from the Pathway Center to the permanent 24/7 Sobering and Crisis Stabilization
Center.
Q. Since the opening of the Pathway Center, the County has continued to learn
lessons that will be crucial to integrate into the opening of the permanent 24/7
Sobering and Crisis Stabilization to ensure its success, including the phased
approach of expanding referral entry both to the deflection program and to
sobering services.
R. An HB 4002 Leadership Team with membership beyond the statutory
membership contained in HB 4002 and has been convened by the Chair. The HB
4002 Leadership Team makes decisions related to eligibility and requirements for
success and the meetings are not public.
S. Since September 2024, the Commission has been assessing the County’s
House Bill 4002 Deflection Program through work sessions and informational
meetings to propose improvements to align program goals, objectives, policies
and funding to deliver an effective, trauma-informed, cost-effective program.
T. As a result of the policies contained in this resolution, the County may determine
there are additional costs associated with the program which would come
forward as a future budget modification.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves to:
Establish as County policy the following criteria to inform County operations that will
deliver an effective, trauma-informed, cost-effective program. Programming should
include County action to:
1. Add addictions services providers to the HB 4002 Leadership Team.
Facilitation of this team must focus on the importance of collaboration and
consensus building to make decisions that ensure buy-in by all involved
partners and interested parties.
2. Establish deflection program completion success criteria requirements for
deflection program participants to include:
A. A same-day screening or substance use disorder (SUD)
assessment at the permanent 24/7 sobering or through approved
field based deflection and crisis stabilization facility, and
B. Ongoing engagement with a care coordinator, case manager, or
service provider, defined as five or more care coordination contacts
within 90 days with progressive milestones at 30 and 60 days,
coordinating treatment services across County departments and
external service partners, or
C. Meaningful engagement, as documented by the care coordinator,
case manager, or service provider with supporting evidence, with
one more or more treatment services to address issues identified in
the screening or SUD assessment within 90 days.
3. In the event that a deflection participant walks away from the deflection
center after being transported by a referring partner and/or fails to
complete a screening or SUD assessment, the District Attorney may file
charges.
4. Improve service connections through strengthened case management
across health and homeless services and connect people to the
continuum of addiction treatment services and homeless services,
including shelter and housing.
A. Access to County’s medically assisted treatment (MAT) and detox
facilities and services.
B. Create prioritized access to the service enhanced behavioral health
shelter(s) as part of the County-funded shelter system.
C. Explore the case conferencing model of evidence-based
deflection/diversion programs like Law Enforcement Assisted
Diversion (LEAD) and report back to the Multnomah Board of
County Commissioners what it will take to implement this
reform at the next quarterly report.
D. Explore opportunities to fund independent project managers
responsible for coordinating all aspects of deflection.
5. Provide safe shuttling to deflection, as well as from deflection and on to
referral and support services.
A. Increase coordination with public safety, County staff, City staff, and
available service providers to improve transportation to services.
B. Law enforcement and identified program referral partners will
provide safe shuttling to deflection, and
C. The County will coordinate shuttling from deflection on to referred
service(s) identified in the screening or SUD assessment, and
D. Behavioral health network providers and appropriate homeless
services case managers may provide shuttling from deflection on to
referred service(s) identified in the screening or SUD assessment.
6. The County will identify gaps in the behavioral health continuum and
potential strategies to fill them.
A. Examine and assess local gaps analyses by Oregon Health &
Science University and other local studies in SUD treatment
services, including rates and reasons that people people drop out
at various points of the treatment care continuum, and
B. Develop and propose a County strategic plan to increase access to
withdrawal management and treatment services, and
C. Advocate to the state for appropriate resources needed to address
the gaps in the behavioral health continuum, including more
inpatient treatment, intensive outpatient treatment, and transitional
recovery housing.
7. Deliver service continuity through cross-referencing and enhancing data
and supportive technology.
A. Homeless Management Information System: reach out to any
existing programs or case managers that have worked with the
person in the past and provide warm handoffs back into homeless
services.
B. By Name List (BNL): program staff will check the BNL if a person
identifies as homeless and and if they are not on the BNL program
staff will add them.
C. Data reports and data dashboard from criminal justice system
partners regarding the HB 4002 Deflection Program will be
explored, developed and shared with the Multnomah Board of
County Commissioners that includes the following data:
i. Possession of a controlled substance (PCS) arrests,
including co-charges
ii. PCS cite-and-release
iii. Warrants resolved without custody
iv. Referrals
v. Enrollments
vi. 30, 60, and 90 day milestone attainment
vii. Avoided bookings/filings.
D. Explore contracting unbiased supportive technology that tracks a
person’s progress through the Deflection Program and to help
manage it.
8. Explore expanding deflection eligibility and referral sources, accompanied
with increased completion requirements, including but not limited to:
A. The District Attorney's proposal to include additional misdemeanor
charges, and
B. Consistent with the program's capacity and ability to deliver quality
services in line with best practices for Behavioral Health and
deflection.
9. Ensure deflection program transparency and accountability through
regular Commission engagement by:
A. Quarterly status reporting on deflection program outcomes and
budget to the Commission, and
B. Recommendations and considerations regarding deflection policies,
including eligibility and success criteria, must come from at least
the entities listed under HB 4002 Section 76.(4)(c) and HB 3069
Section 76.(4)(c)(A) and incorporate input from service providers for
coordination of the CJC grant application and be approved by the
Commission, as well as policy recommendations regarding
eligibility and success criteria from any committees or working
groups.
10. Coordinate the implementation of deflection, including communications to
clients, program requirements and program completion with the District
Attorney, public defenders, and law enforcement.
11. The Board will be provided options for crisis stabilization and other
resources to serve people needing mental health and addiction services
before the FAC-1 is up for a vote.
12. Commits to continuous improvement to Multnomah County’s deflection
program and continuing to engage with constituents, partners and experts
to recommend policy as needed.
ADOPTED this 26th day of February, 2026.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
    Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
SUBMITTED BY:  Commissioner Shannon Singleton, District 2 and Commissioner Julia
Brim-Edwards, District 3