BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY , OREGON
PROCLAMATION NO. 2023-082
Proclaiming September 15 through October 15, 2023, as Latiné and Hispanic Heritage
Month in Multnomah County, Oregon.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
A. For over fifty years, Latiné and Hispanic Heritage Month has been celebrated
nationwide from September 15 to October 15 to honor and recognize the diverse
Latiné communities who bring rich culture, language, and history to our region.
B. Latiné and Hispanic Heritage Month is held in recognition of the significance of
September 15th because it is the anniversary of the Independence of Latin
American countries Costa Rica, El Salvador. Guatemala, Honduras, and
Nicaragua and Mexico’s and Chile’s celebration of their Independence days on
September 16th and 18th.
C. Multnomah County has been home to people who identify as Hispanic, Latino,
Latiné, Latina, Latinx, Afro-Latino, Aftro-Latina, Chicano, Chicana, and/or
Indigenous from Mexico, Central or South America for over 100 years. In the
1920 census, 37 Mexicans were listed as living in Multnomah County.
D. Members of the community in Multnomah County include people whose families
have been here for generations and some of the newest members of our
community. Oregon’s Hispanic population is among one of the fastest growing. In
Multnomah County, it is estimated that 13% of Multnomah County’s population
identifies as Hispanic or Latiné.
E. Latiné residents in Multnomah County contribute to our culture and arts as
singers, performers, and writers. They help drive our small business economy as
workers, business owners, and entrepreneurs. They enrich our academic
environment as teachers, professors, and engineers. They are driving social and
political change as advocates, activists, and elected officials. They ensure our
health and community as nurses, doctors, caretakers, and childcare workers.
F . Latiné employees make up 13% percent of Multnomah County’s workforce. The
approximately 778 Latiné County employees allow us to better serve our
community by bringing multilingual and multicultural capacity to our workforce.
H. Multnomah County takes great pride in our growing community and all who
identify under the Latiné umbrella; and in the impressive and valuable
contributions made by our Latiné residents to the County's growth, prosperity,
and well-being.
I. Latiné and Hispanic Heritage Month celebrates and recognizes the contributions
that the Latinė communities in the United States have made to society and
culture. This month, we honor the rich heritage of Latiné communities and
celebrate their countless achievements.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
1. September 15 through October 15, 2023, as Latiné and Hispanic Heritage Month
in Multnomah County, Oregon, in recognition and celebration of the many
contributions of Latinx residents to the County and our community.
2. We call upon all residents of Multnomah County to celebrate the history and
recognize the contributions of Latiné residents to our community, state, and
nation.
SUBMITTED BY: Chair Jessica Vega Pederson
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By
Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
ADOPTED this 5th day of October, 2023.