BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-061
Resolution Approving the Intergovernmental Agreement between Multnomah County and the City of Portland
for the Administration of the County Business Income Tax.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. Administration of the County Business Income Tax (BIT) and the City Business License Tax (BLT) were
consolidated in 1993 to provide operational efficiencies.
b. The consolidation program has allowed businesses to follow a single set of procedures and definitions and
to file a single reporting form for both the City and the County. This has simplified reporting requirements
for businesses and has minimized administrative costs for the County for the past 27 years.
c. The attached Intergovernmen tal Agreement provides for a ten  year extension of the existing agreement
with the City of Portland (through FY 2020). The estimat ed cost to the County in FY 2021 is $1,393,468 .
The base administrative fee will be adjusted by CPI annually.
d. The City will be implementing new tax software “Inte grated Tax Software Project”  that will greatly
modernize and enhance tax collection and administration. The new software is scheduled to go -live in
August 2020.
e. The Count y will contribute to ITS project costs based on “Revenue Baseline Computation” beginn ing in
fiscal year 2022. If revenues for Increased Collection Activities (delinquent account collections,
unregistered business collections, audit recovery, and unreported property transactions)  exceed an
established annual baseline the County will contribute to projects costs.
f. The total annual estimated cost for ITS Project is $5.7 million. The Multnomah County share of ITS costs is
estimated to be $1.3 million annually.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
The Board of County Commissioners approves the attached Intergovernmental Agreement  for the
administration of the County Business Income Tax. The agreement term will begin July 1, 2020.
ADOPTED this 2nd day of July, 2020.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Eric Arellano, Chief Financial Officer

MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
CITY OF PORTLAND, OREGON

Intergovernmental Agreement

 THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) entered into by and between Multnomah County,
Oregon, hereinafter “County”, and the City of Portland, hereinafter “City”, is pursuant to authority
of ORS Chapter 190.

A. The consolidated administration of the City of Portland’s Business License Tax Law
and the Multnomah County Business Income Tax Law has simplified reporting
requirements for businesses and has reduced administrative costs for both the City
and the County for the past 27 years.

B. A consolidated program has allowed businesses to follow a single set of procedures
and definitions and to file a single reporting form for both the City and the County for
the past 27 years.

C. The City and the County jointly developed and have retained code conformity and
consolidated administration for the past 27 years with positive results for both
jurisdictions.

D. The City, acting through the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, Revenue
Division (the “Division”), is willing and able to continue administering the Multnomah
County Business Income Tax Law for the County.

E. The City of Portland will be implementing new tax collection software with greatly
enhanced functionality. The new system is scheduled to go-live late in 2020.

 NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the
parties agree as follows:

1. General Administration.

a. The Division agrees to supervise and administer the Multnomah County
Business Income Tax Law, imposed by the Multnomah County Code as adopted
by the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners (“the County Business
Income Tax”).

b. The Division agrees to administer the County Business Income Tax, including,
but not limited to, adopting administrative rules and written policies, collecting
estimated tax payments, auditing returns, assessing and collecting tax and tax
deficiencies, including penalties and interest, making refunds, hearing appeals,
and taking any other action necessary to administer and collect taxes under the
County Business Income Tax.

c. The County will defend any legal claims against the County Business Income
Tax regarding the legal validity or constitutionality of the County Business Income
Tax.

d. In performing its duties under this Agreement, the Division may in its discretion
determine what action shall be taken to enforce the provisions of the County
Business Income Tax and collect the tax imposed thereunder.  In exercising its
discretion, the Division agrees to provide a level of service comparable to the
level of service it provides in the administration of the Business License Tax Law.
If the Division deems it necessary to vary substantially from this standard, the
Division shall notify the County of the need and obtain its written consent.

e. As the tax administrator, the Division is authorized to collect any and all taxes,
penalties, interest, and fees for any tax year open under statute.

2. Appeals Board.

a. The County designates the Business License Appeals Board, as created by the
Business License Tax Law, as the body for reviewing taxfiler appeals from final
determinations made by the Division under the County Business Income Tax.

b. The County Chair shall provide recommendations for appointments to be made
by the Mayor to the Business License Appeals Board.  The Mayor shall appoint
one (1) of the three (3) public members of the Business License Appeals Board
from the list of recommendations submitted by the County Chair.  The County
Chair will submit one or more names that meet the expertise requirement in the
City Code (7.02.295 D).  If the County Chair does not provide any
recommendations for the board by the deadline established in the written notice
(issued at least 30 days before any deadline), the Mayor may make an
appointment from the Mayor’s own list of recommendations.

3. Payments to the County.

a. The Division agrees to deposit all taxes collected under this Agreement to a
trustee account within the City established on behalf of and for the benefit of the
County.  The account shall earn interest based on the City’s internal interest
allocation used for its own funds.

b. The City agrees, after deducting pending refunds and other credits, to remit the
balance of the tax collected under this Agreement to the County, less an amount
required to restore the Reserve Balance, defined below, if needed, by the tenth
(10th) business day following the close of each month.

c. The County agrees to maintain a reserve balance in the trustee account
described in Section 3.a, of approximately two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000) (the “Reserve Balance”).

d. The Division agrees to make payments of taxes collected under this Agreement
to the County’s Local Government Investment Pool Account No. 4017.  Should
extraordinary refunds, adjustments, or credits require funds in excess of the
Reserve Balance, the Division may retain a reasonable amount in excess of the
$200,000 in the trustee account, or the County agrees to transfer necessary
funds to the City from its Local Government Investment Pool Account No. 4017
to the City’s Local Government Investment Pool Account No. 4002 to bring the
Reserve Balance back to $200,000.

e. The Division agrees to provide monthly reconciliations of deposits made and net
revenues collected.  The Division agrees to provide a minimum of 10 days prior
notice if it requires retention or transfer by the County of an amount equal to or
greater than $500,000.

4. Payments to the City.

The annual compensation to be paid to the City during FY 2020-2021, for all services
provided under this Agreement shall be $1,393, 468. For FY 2021-2022 and
thereafter, the annual compensation will be adjusted annually by the greater of two
and one half (2.5%) or the annual West Region-Size Class A Consumer Price Index
All Urban Consumers (CPI-W) as issued by the US Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics from December to December. The compensation will be billed in
twelve equal installments on the 15th of each month, or the first business day that
follows.  The County agrees to make payment of the billed installment by the end of
the month.

If administrative costs increase as a result of a material change to one jurisdiction’s
business income tax law that is not reflected in the other, the City may increase the
annual compensation to reflect that cost of administration only if it has provided the
County with written notice, at least 90 days in advance of the cost increase.  If the
City or County subsequently changes the tax law to bring the two codes back into
conformity, the City will remove the increased charge if it has been less than one
year since it was added.

5. Additional Payments to the City for Integrated Tax System.

The City will be implementing new tax collection software (“Integrated Tax System”
or “ITS”) that will be operational in FY 2020-2021. The new tax system functionality
will enhance tax collection efforts for both the City and County. Each of the tax
programs on the ITS platform will contribute to overall ITS costs based on their
relative proportion of the total revenue collected using a three-fiscal year lookback of
actual revenues. In the event a new program is collected on ITS after this IGA is
implemented, it will be allocated a portion of ITS project costs for bonded and un-
bonded debt service commencing in the fiscal year in which the program begins to
generate revenue. This will result in a reduction of debt service costs for existing
revenue programs on the platform assuming no other factors change, such as the
amount collected by those programs, or programs terminating.

ITS costs include maintenance and support, bonded debt service, unbonded debt
service, and upgrades. Debt service costs will cease after the 10th year. Maintenance
and support and upgrade costs shall be indexed to inflation (West Region-Size Class
A Consumer Price Index All Urban Consumers (CPI-W) as issued by the US
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics from December to December).
Annual total ITS Costs to be recovered are estimated at $5,733,285, with the
breakdown of those costs as follows.

Maintenance and Support - $2,802,882
Bonded Debt - $1,100,000
Unbonded Debt - $1,163,736
Upgrades - $666,667

Annually, the County shall pay for its allocated share of ITS project costs based on
proportion of the revenues collected on the ITS platform. These revenues currently
include the Multnomah County Business Income Tax program. Transient Lodging
Taxes are covered by separate agreements. The County’s portion of ITS costs
related to collection of the Business Income Tax are currently estimated to be
$1,327,883 annually ($13,278,830 over 10 years, estimated), estimates will be
finalized by June 30, 2021. A “Revenue Baseline Computation” methodology will be
used to determine the annual payment to the City. The payment will be based on
“Increased Collection Activities” (comprised of delinquent collections, unregistered
business collections, audit recovery, and unreported property transactions) above
the historical baseline figures detailed below. The baseline shall be treated as an
aggregate of the four categories listed. The City and County may mutually agree on
additional areas of marginal enforcement revenue in the future.

MCBIT-Delinquent Collections: $973,927
MCBIT-Unregistered Businesses: $1,478,199
MCBIT-Audit Recovery: $962,641
MCBIT-Unreported Property Transactions: $678,230

Baseline: $4,092,997

If revenues from Increased Collection Activities in a fiscal year exceed the baseline
of $4,092,997, the County shall pay the total amount above the baseline, not to
exceed the 10-year estimated ITS County share as finalized on June 30, 2021. The
tracking and accounting of revenue increases above the baseline will commence in
FY 2020-21. Payment to the City will begin in FY 2021-2022; the payment will be
received by August 15th for any balance due for the prior year’s activity. In the final
year of the Term (if applicable), the County shall make payment for activity from FY
2029-2030 by June 30, 2030.

IGA Year
ROI Year
(Increased
Collection
Activities)
Payment
Date
Payment Amount
(ICA revenue in
excess of baseline)
7/1/2020-6/30/2021 FY21 8/15/2021 To be determined
7/1/2021-6/30/2022 FY22 8/15/2022 To be determined
7/1/2022-6/30/2023 FY23 8/15/2023 To be determined
7/1/2023-6/30/2024 FY24 8/15/2024 To be determined
7/1/2024-6/30/2025 FY25 8/15/2025 To be determined
7/1/2025-6/30/2026 FY26 8/15/2026 To be determined
7/1/2026-6/30/2027 FY27 8/15/2027 To be determined
7/1/2027-6/30/2028 FY28 8/15/2028 To be determined
7/1/2028-6/30/2029 FY29 8/15/2029 To be determined
7/1/2029-6/30/2030 FY30 6/30/2030 To be determined
ITS PAYMENT SCHEDULE

The City will make all reasonable efforts to confirm Increased Collections Activities
for the County. The City shall provide the County with monthly enforcement and
collection activity reports against baseline commencing approximately 90 days after
implementation of Federal Taxpayer Information (FTI) in ITS. The City and County
shall meet 90 days after the implementation of FTI and thereafter quarterly during FY
2020-2021 to discuss Increased Collections Activities reports. At the close of the
fiscal year the City will provide the County with a summary of collections against

baseline. The County reserves the right to request account level detail to confirm
annual activity. In addition the County reserves the right to contract with an audit firm
to perform an annual independent review of Increased Collection Activities to confirm
yearly activity against baseline and perform a sampling of accounts to confirm
revenues reflect Increased Collections Activities. The cost of the auditor and any
additional cost incurred by City in supporting audit requests will be covered by
County.

Listed below are non-exhaustive examples of Increased Collection Activities within
established categories:

MCBIT-Delinquent Collections:
 Billed accounts delinquent for >120 days
 Payments on delinquent accounts and accounts that have a payment plan
MCBIT-Unregistered Businesses:
 Payments on unregistered business accounts (nonfilter) through account
prospecting
MCBIT Audit Recovery:
 Increase in tax resulting from audit report
 Increase in tax when a taxpayer files an amended return and an auditor
makes an adjustment
 Increase in tax on an original or other filing and an auditor made an
adjustment
MCBIT-Unreported Property Transactions:
 Any adjustment to a return to report property sale gain that was not included
on original filing
 Payment on previously unreported property transactions through account
prospecting

If the County amends the Business Income Tax in a way that materially impacts
enforcement revenue captured in the Increased Collection Activities as outlined in
the Agreement, the City and County will renegotiate the baseline and computation
methodology.

6. Notification of Changes.

a. Law Changes.  The parties agree to cooperate in amending the County Business
Income Tax or the City Business License Tax Law to ensure uniformity and
consistency in these respective codes and in administration.  Both parties to this
Agreement agree to notify the other of any intent to make changes, whether in
the law or in the tax or fee rates, at least thirty (30) days prior to adopting the
change.  If both parties mutually agree to make changes, such changes may take
effect in less than the thirty (30) days required.  Both parties acknowledge that if
changes are made to one code and not the other, administrative costs may
increase as a result.

b. Administrative Rules.  The County’s Chief Financial Officer, or designee, may
request to be involved in the development of Administrative Rules.  If the
County’s Chief Financial Officer so requests, the Division agrees that it will not
initiate the public process for review and comment on proposed Administrative
Rules until the County’s Chief Financial Officer and the Division mutually agree
on the content and substance of the Administrative Rules.

7. Reports.

a. The Division agrees to provide receipts and expenditure reports to the County at
the close of each of the City’s accounting periods.  The Division will deliver a
preliminary report, estimating receipts and expenditures by tax year, to the
County by the 10th day of each month.  If the 10th day falls on a legal holiday or
on a weekend, the preliminary report will be delivered on the following business
day.

b. The Division agrees to provide the County, upon request, a report of large
potential refunds due to amended returns, appeals or overpaid estimates.  For
purposes of the preceding sentence, “large” shall mean a single refund total of
more than $200,000.

c. The Division will provide other reports or perform other work or may discontinue
or combine any of the above reports, as the Division and the County may
mutually agree.  If the reports or other work requested by the County require
extensive programming time or have significant costs associated with the project,
the City and the County may agree upon additional charges to be paid for such
additional work under this Agreement.

d. The County agrees that all County employees given access to the tax records
derived from the database or new tax software will safeguard the tax information
and maintain the confidentiality of individual taxpayer information.  To obtain
access to tax records, an authorized County employee must attend the City’s
Security and Disclosure Awareness training, updated by the Division, annually.
Upon completion of the annual training, a Confidentiality Oath must be signed
that documents the employee’s understanding of the confidential nature of the
data, the need to safeguard it and the consequences of violating the City’s
confidentiality policies and procedures.

e. The County agrees to provide property tax information relevant to property
transactions to the City to support the administration of the Business Income Tax
program and other programs.

8. Information.

a. The parties agree to cooperate in exchanging information and making joint public
announcements to promote the effective administration of the County Business
Income Tax and the City Business License Tax Law.  In regard to the County
Business Income Tax, all public announcements and all correspondence relating
to policy matters and public relations will be the County’s responsibility.  The
Division agrees to notify the County of any matter arising from the administration
of the County Business Income Tax that may require any legislative amendments
or affect County policy, including any policy relating to the amount of taxes
collected.

b. Additionally, the parties agree that all City and County tax returns from any year,
are available for review and may be used by Division staff to assess fees or
taxes not previously collected under one and/or both laws.

9. Public Records.

a. All work performed by the City under this Agreement shall be considered to be
the property of the County.  The County shall own any and all data the City
produces in connection with this Agreement.  Upon termination of this
Agreement, the City and County will mutually agree upon how delivery of this
data is to be effectuated.  Since the tax returns are combined with the City’s
business license tax return as of tax year 1993, the City and County jointly own
these documents.  The City and County will equally share any copying expenses
(paper or electronic) related to these returns upon termination of this Agreement.

b. The Division may receive public records requests for County Business Income
Tax records obtained by or provided to the Division under this Agreement.  If
there is a question whether a document with County information is exempt from
the public records law, any such request(s) shall be forwarded to the County’s
Chief Financial Officer, or routed as (s)he directs, by the following business day.
The County’s Chief Financial Officer, or designee, may determine if the
requested records exist, and if such records are subject to the public records law.
Any determination made by the County under the public records law shall be the
County’s sole responsibility, including but not limited to any legal defenses of
such determinations.

10. Limitations and Conditions.

a. To the extent permitted by Oregon law, the City agrees to indemnify, within the
limits of the Oregon Tort Claims Act, the County from any and all claims,
demands, settlements or judgments, including all costs and attorney fees, arising
from any of the Division’s activities under this Agreement, provided, that the City
shall not be required to indemnify the County for any such claims, demands,
settlements or judgments arising from the wrongful acts of the County’s officers,
agents or employees.

b. To the extent permitted by Oregon law, the County agrees to indemnify, within
the limits of the Oregon Tort Claims Act, the City from any and all claims,
demands, settlements or judgments, including all costs and attorney fees, arising
from any of the County’s activities under this Agreement, provided, that the
County shall not be required to indemnify the City for any such claims, demands,
settlements or judgments arising from the wrongful acts of the City’s officers,
agents or employees.

11. Confidentiality.

a. The information provided by individual taxpayers on tax returns shall be treated
as confidential information to the extent permitted under Oregon law.  Such
information may be disclosed to the County, for purposes of monitoring or
overseeing the Division’s administration of the County Business Income Tax or
for County revenue forecasting and budgeting.  If authorized by the County’s
Chief Financial Officer, County officers, agents or employees may have access
to such information after the execution of a certificate of confidentiality and
background check.  The confidentiality certificate shall advise the officer, agent or
employee of the penalties for disclosure of confidential information.  The County
shall obtain and keep on file such certificates for its employees, agents and

officers, and will provide a copy of the certificate to the Division.  Before access is
granted, required training as detailed in Section 6.d. must be completed.

b. When making requests for such information, other than routinely agreed upon
reports, the County shall give not less than ten (10) calendar days prior notice to
the Division, stating the information desired, the purpose of the request and the
use to be made of such information.

c. The County may audit the Division’s administration of the County Business
Income Tax, applying generally accepted audit standards.  The County agrees to
provide reasonable prior notice of its intent to audit the Division.  Prior to
beginning the audit, all County officers, agents, employees or contractors
participating in the audit agree to execute confidentiality certificates and
background checks as provided herein.

d.  The City will allow authorized County employees direct access to the City’s ITS
platform for the purposes detailed above. For security purposes, such access
shall be granted only from the City’s premises. The City shall make such access
available within 10 business days of the County’s request.

12. Term.

a. The term of this Agreement shall be ten years, beginning July 1, 2020 (the
“Term”), unless terminated by operation of law or by either party upon twelve
months prior written notice.  Prior to the termination date of this Agreement, the
County and the City will determine the disposition of pending matters which will
not otherwise be completed within the Term, and the Division will provide the
County with such records as are necessary for the County to commence
collecting the tax under the County Business Income Tax.

13. Payment on Early Termination.

Upon early termination as provided by this Agreement, the County shall pay the
City for all work performed prior to the termination date.

14. Integration.

This Agreement embodies the whole of the agreement between the parties for
the administration of the County Business Income Tax.  Any prior written or oral
agreements shall be superseded hereby.  The terms of this Agreement shall not
be waived, altered, modified, supplemented or amended, in any manner
whatsoever, except by written instrument signed by the parties.

15. Severability.

If any provisions of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not invalidate or render
unenforceable any other provisions hereof.

16. Notice.

a. Program Managers.  The City Program Manager shall be the Director of the
City’s Revenue Division, or such other person as shall be designated in writing
by the Director.  The County’s Program Manager shall be the County’s Chief
Financial Officer, or such other person as shall be designated in writing by the
Chief Financial Officer.

b. Any notice provided for under this Agreement shall be sufficient if in writing and
delivered to the following addressee or deposited in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed as follows, or to such other address as the receiving
party specifies in writing.  Additionally, the parties may agree that written
notification by email may serve as appropriate notice.

If to the City:  Revenue Division Director
     111 SW Columbia St., Suite 600
     Portland, Oregon  97201

If to the County: Multnomah County - Chief Financial Officer
     501 SE Hawthorne Blvd. 5th Floor
     Portland, Oregon  97214

17. Oregon Law and Forum.

a. This Agreement shall be construed according to the laws of the State of Oregon.

b. Any litigation between the City and the County arising under this Agreement or
out of work performed under this Agreement shall occur, if in the state courts, in
the Multnomah County Court having jurisdiction thereof, and if in the federal
courts, in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon.

18. Independent Contractor Status.

a. The City is engaged as an independent contractor and shall be responsible for
any federal, state and local taxes and fees applicable to payments hereunder.

b. The City, its subcontractors and their employees are not employees of the
County and are not eligible for any benefits through the County including, without
limitation, federal social security, health benefits, workers' compensation,
unemployment compensation and retirement benefits.

19. Amendments.

The City and the County may amend this Agreement at any time only by written
amendment executed by the City and the County.  Any amendment must be
approved by ordinance of the City Council.

20. Non-Waiver.

The City and the County shall not be deemed to have waived any breach of this
Agreement by the other party except by an express waiver in writing.  An express
written waiver as to one breach shall not be deemed a waiver of any other
breach not expressly identified, even though the other breach be of the same
nature as that waived.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the authorized representatives of the City and County, as
parties hereto, acting pursuant to the authority granted to them, have

 HEREBY AGREED:

CITY OF PORTLAND    MULTNOMAH COUNTY

By: ___________________________  By: ______________________________
 Mayor      Chair
 City of Portland, Oregon   Multnomah County

Date signed: __________________  Date signed: _______________________

Approved as to Form:    Reviewed by:

_____________________________  ___________________________________
Tracy Reeve     Jenny M. Madkour
City Attorney     County Attorney for
      Multnomah County