BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON  RESOLUTION NO. 2023-096  Resolution Renaming the Bridge Spanning the Multnomah Channel of the Columbia River at Sauvie Island to Honor the Native Communities.  The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:  A. As a policy-making governmental institution that has benefited greatly at the expense of Native American communities, the County should embrace ways to re-indigenize our landscape to celebrate the people who lost life, land, language and more during the introduction of federal-Indian policies.   B. Sauvie Island holds significant cultural importance for tribal communities as part of the tribal trade network of the Columbia and Willamette Rivers. Chinookan relatives, known as the Multnomah, thrived throughout the 15 villages on the island.   C. Because of the cultural significance of the island and the County’s values to center equity by working in partnership with communities who have been historically harmed, the Board accepted a recommendation from the Advisory Council on Sustainability and Innovation to rename the bridge, in November 2022, establishing a consultation process with tribal governments and an engagement process with communities.   D. Multnomah County acknowledges not only that we are conducting business on the ancestral homelands of tribal nations, but that the termination era was meant to strip Native people of their identity and culture. Today, we have the opportunity to support the reclaiming and celebration of that identity and culture in a public way and in partnership with tribal governments.   The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:  1. To rename and accept the proposed name of “Wapato Bridge” as the new name of the County owned and operated bridge that spans the Multnomah Channel of the Columbia River, formerly known as the Sauvie Island Bridge, which was identified and recommended by the Bridge Renaming Council.   2. To continue to look for ways to work in partnership with tribal governments and communities toward strengthened relationships and systemic change that fosters success for Native American people.
ADOPTED this 30th day of November, 2023.
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
SUBMITTED BY: Jessica Vega Pederson, County Chair