BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON

PROCLAMATION NO. 2024-098

Proclaiming November 2024 as Native American Heritage Month and a Commitment to
Continued Collaboration with Native American Communities to engage County policies,
procedures and common practices to address our shared priorities.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:

A. In recognition of Native American Heritage Month, Multnomah County honors and
celebrates the many contributions made by the Native American peoples throughout our
community and organization.

B. Today, more than 380 Tribal Nations are represented throughout Multnomah County,
shaping our region with their invaluable contributions, passing down strong cultural
practices, knowledge and values rooted in tradition and community. Many of whom work
throughout the County’s departments and programs, furthering our organization's
mission daily.

C. Recognizing that we were not the first caretakers of this land and that generations of
Native American people called, and continue to call, this place home, is essential to
where we need to begin as a County and community. If we are intentional about equit y
and inclusion, being sincere in our words and actions will consistently result in respect
for Native American people coming first.

D. This month brings an opportunity to educate the public about our shared history of how
attempted erasure devastated Indian Country and those deliberate acts can still be felt
today through oppressive policies and practices woven throughout our governmental
systems, including Multnomah County.

E. Tribal communities face unique political and equity issues that the County’s Native staff
members carry with them into the workplace every day. The Board of County
Commissioners is committed to engaging our Native employees and identifying and
addressing systemic barriers.

F. Multnomah County is committed to working together in a spirit of mutual recognition,
respect and reconciliation towards strengthened relationships and services in
partnership with tribal communities and our employees.

The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Proclaims:
November 2024 as Native American Heritage Month in Multnomah County, Oregon, to honor
and celebrate the many contributions made by Native Americans throughout our vibrant
community. We encourage other businesses, organizations, public institutions and
community members to recognize the importance of this proclamation, and to take time to
learn and teach others around the history and cultural significance of our county and Native
American community.
ADOPTED this 14th day of November, 2024.
SUBMITTED BY: Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
By:
 Jenny M. Madkour, County Attorney
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Jessica Vega Pederson, Chair