BEFORE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
RESOLUTION NO. 2020-101
Authorizing Short-Term Financing in Anticipation of Income Tax Revenues in an Amount Not to Exceed
$15,000,000.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Finds:
a. On November 3, 2020, voters of the Coun ty approved Measure 26-214, which established a
new tax on taxable income derived within the County above certain thresholds (the “Income
Tax”) in order to establish a tuition -free “Preschool for  All Program” in the County  (the
“Preschool Program”).
b. The County expects to incur certain operating costs associated with the Preschool Program,
including costs for software development, County staff time and services, and tax
administration and collection by the City of Portland (collectively, the “Operating Costs”),
before it receives Income Tax revenues in an amount sufficient to pay such Operating Costs.
c. ORS 287A.180 authorizes the County to borrow money to provide financing in anticipation of
the Income Tax revenues , so long as the borrowing matures within 13 months of issuance
and does not exceed  80% of the  Income Tax revenues  that the County has budgeted or
otherwise reasonably expects to have available to pay the borrowing.  Such borrowing may
be secured by all or any part of the revenues of the County that may lawfully be used to pay
the borrowing.
d. The County reasonably expects to have a t least $ 133 million in Income Tax revenues
available to pay the borrowing and the maximum principal amount of the borrowing does not
exceed 80% of that amount.
e. It is in the best interests of the County to borrow not more than $15,000,000 in anticipation of
Income Tax revenues in order to finance the Operating Costs.
The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners Resolves:
1. Short-Term Financing Authorized .  The County Board of Commissioners  hereby
authorizes the County to enter into a f inancing for the Operating Costs (the “Short-Term
Financing”) pursuant to ORS 287A.180. The Short-Term Financing may be in the form of
tax revenue anticipation notes, lines of credit, loan agreements or other obligations. The
term of the Short-Term Financing shall not exceed thirteen months  and the aggregate
principal amount of the Short-Term Financing shall not exceed $15,000,000.
2. Security for Short-Term Financing.  The County shall pay amounts due under the Short-
Term Financing  from any and all of its lawfully available funds as authorized by
ORS 287A.180.  Pursuant to ORS 287A.315, the County hereby pledges its full faith and
credit and taxing power within the limitations of Sections 11 and 11b of Article XI of the
Oregon Constitution to pay the amounts due under the Short-Term Financing.  This pledge
of the County’s full faith and credit and taxing power shall not entitle the owner or
purchaser of the Short-Term Financing to any lien on specific properties or revenues of
the County.
3. No Additional Taxes Authorized.  The Short-Term Financing shall not be an unlimited tax
general obligation of the County and neither the authorization or the issuance of the Short-
Term Financing  shall authorize the County to levy any taxes  outside the limitations of
Sections 11 and 11b, Article XI of the Oregon Constitution.
4. Delegation.  The Chief Financial Officer or their designee (the “Authorized
Representative”) may, on behalf of the County and without further action by the Board:
i. Select one or more commercial banks or other purchasers of the Short-Term
Financing;
ii. Participate in the preparation of, authorize the distr ibution of, and deem final any
disclosure documents that are desirable for the Short-Term Financing;
iii. Establish the final principal amounts, maturity dates, interest ra tes, sale prices,
redemption terms, payment terms and d ates, and other terms of the Short-Term
Financing within the limitations of this resolution;
iv. Issue, sell and deliver the Short-Term Financing;
v. Provide that the Short-Term Financing will bear interest that is excludable from, or
includable in, gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Internal
Revenue Code; and
vi. Negotiate the terms of, and execute and deliver any legal documents that are
desired to carry out the borrowings authorized by this resolu tion, execute and
deliver any related certificates or other documents, and take any other action in
connection with the borrowings which the Authorized Representative determines
will be advantageous to the County.
ADOPTED this 3rd day of December, 2020.
SUBMITTED BY:  Eric Arellano, Chief Financial Officer
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON
Deborah Kafoury, County Chair
REVIEWED:
JENNY M. MADKOUR, COUNTY ATTORNEY
FOR MULTNOMAH COUNTY, OREGON