F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-1
CHAPTER 119
CONDITIONAL USES
119.010. General Concept
119.020. Application
119.025. Administrative Review
119.030. Power to Hear and Decide Conditional Uses
119.040. Hearings
119.050. Conditional Use and Concurrent Variances
119.060. Conditions
119.070. Findings of the Hearings Officer or  Plann ing Director
119.075. Notice of Hearings Officer or Planning Dir ector Decision
119.080. Effective Date of Conditional Use
119.090. Conditional Use Must Be Exercised to Be Ef fective
119.100. Cessation of Conditional Use
119.110. Transfer of Conditional Use
119.120. Appeal to Board of Commissioners
119.130. Resubmission of Conditional Use Applicatio n
119.140. Revocation of Conditional Use Permit
119.150. Specific Conditional Uses
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-2
119.010.  GENERAL CONCEPT.   A conditional use is an activity which is basically similar to
other uses permitted in the zone, but due to some of the characteristics of the conditional use,
which are not entirely compatible with the zone, such use could not otherwise be permitted in the
zone.  Review of the proposed conditional use by the Planning Director and/or a public hearing
and review by the Hearings Officer will ensure that the use will be in consonance with the
purpose and intent of the zone.  [Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
119.020.  APPLICATION.   An application for a conditional use may be filed by the following
only:
(A) The owner of the property.
(B) A purchaser thereof under a duly executed writt en contract when he states that he is
the contract purchaser on the application and the seller consents in writing to such
application.
(C) A lessee in possession of the property and the owner consents in writing to such
application.
(D) Or the agent for any of the foregoing when duly  authorized in writing by the property
owner and the agent states on the application that he is the duly authorized agent.
The application for a proposed conditional use, or to enlarge, expand, or alter a
conditional use shall be on a form provided by the Planning Director and shall
contain such information as the Hearings Officer or Planning Director feels is
necessary to fully assess the effect of the conditional use on the surrounding area.
[Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
119.025.  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.  Conditional use applications shall be processed as a
Type B procedure pursuant to Section 110.240, unless otherwise specified by the Zoning
Ordinance.
119.030.  POWER TO HEAR AND DECIDE CONDITIONAL USES.   The Hearings Officer
or Planning Director (refer to Section 111.240) shall hear and decide only those applications for
conditional uses, their expansion or alteration, which are listed in this ordinance.  The Hearings
Officer or Planning Director shall decide whether or not the conditional use may be placed in the
zone and may impose the conditions listed below, subject to the restrictions and provisions of
this ordinance
.  [Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
119.040.  HEARINGS.   Hearings where required shall be held per Chapter 111.  [Amended by
Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
119.050.  CONDITIONAL USE AND CONCURRENT VARIANCES.  Variances may be
processed concurrently and in conjunction with a conditional use application and when so
processed will not require an additional public hearing or additional filing fee.
119.060.  CONDITIONS.   The Hearings Officer or Planning Director may prescribe restrictions
or limitations for the proposed conditional use , but may not reduce any requirement or standard
which is  specifically required by this ordinance to be included  as a condition to the use.  Any
reduction or change of other requirements of the ordinance must be considered as varying the
ordinance and must be requested as a concurrent variance request, as described in Section
119.050.  The Hearings Officer or Planning Director shall impose conditions only after it has
been determined that such conditions are necessary for the public health, safety or general
welfare, or to protect persons working or residing in the area, or the protection of property or
improvements in the area.  The Hearings Officer or Planning Director may prescribe such
conditions as are necessary to fulfill the purpose and intent of this ordinance.  [Amended by Ordinance
#219, dated September 22, 1978, and by Ordinance #8 8-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-3
119.070.  FINDINGS OF THE HEARINGS OFFICER OR PLANNING DIRECTOR.
Before granting a conditional use, the Hearings Officer or Planning Director shall determine:
(A) That he  or she has the power to grant the conditional use.
(B) That such conditional use, as described by the applicant, will be in harmony with the
purpose and intent of the zone.
(C) That such conditional use, as described by the applicant, complies with any specific
provisions for such a use as provided by the zone or by Section 119.150.
(D) That the imposition of conditions is deemed nec essary for the public health, safety or
welfare, or to protect the health or safety of persons working or residing in the area,
or for the protection of property or improvements in the neighborhood. [Amended by
Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
119.075  NOTICE OF HEARINGS OFFICER OR PLANNING DIRECTOR DECISION.
Notice of the decision by the Planning Director or Hearings Officer regarding s conditional use
application shall be provided as required by Section 111.270, unless otherwise specified by the
Zoning Ordinance.
119.080.  EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONDITIONAL USE.   Conditional Uses granted by the
Hearings Officer or Planning Director under the provisions of this ordinance shall not be
effective until 10 days after the mailing of the notice of decision or after the regular meeting of
the Polk County Board of Commissioners following such mailing, whichever is later.  However,
if the matter has been called up by the Board under Section 111.290, or the matter has been
appealed under Section 111.280, the land use action does not become effective until the Board
has taken final action.
119.090.  CONDITIONAL USE MUST BE EXERCISED TO BE EFFECTIVE.   A
Conditional use granted under this ordinance shall be effective only when the exercise of the
right granted thereunder shall be commenced within one (1) year after the effective date of that
conditional use, unless a longer period be specified or thereafter allowed by the Hearings Officer
or Planning Director.  In case such right has not been exercised, or extension obtained, the
conditional use shall be void.  A written request for an extension of time filed with the Planning
Director at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the application shall extend the running of the
one year period until the Planning Director has acted on said request.
119.100.  CESSATION OF CONDITIONAL USE.   Discontinuance of the exercise of any
right heretofore or hereafter authorized for any conditional use for a continuous period of six (6)
months shall be deemed an abandonment of such conditional use.
119.110.  TRANSFER OF CONDITIONAL USE.   Any valid conditional use granted pursuant
to this ordinance is transferrable unless otherwise provided at the time of the granting of such
conditional use.
119.120.  APPEAL TO THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.   An appeal may be taken to
the Board of Commissioners by any person whose interests are adversely affected or who is
aggrieved by the determination of the Hearings Officer or Planning Director on an application for
a conditional use.  Such an appeal shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of Section
111.280 of the Zoning Ordinance.
The Board of Commissioners shall review the action of the Hearings Officer or Planning
Director, conduct a public hearing, and render a decision as prescribed in Chapter 111 of the
Zoning Ordinance.
119.130.  RESUBMISSION OF CONDITIONAL USE APPLICATION.   No portion of a
conditional use application which has been denied by the Hearings Officer, Planning Director, or
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-4
by the Board of Commissioners shall be resubmitted within a period of one year after such
denial.  This section does not prevent resubmission of applications withdrawn prior to approval
or denial, upon payment of the fee prescribed for a new application.
119.140.  REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.   Any conditional use permit
granted under this Ordinance may be canceled by the Hearings Officer, Planning Director, or
Board of Commissioners if it develops or is ascertained that the application therefore contains
any false statements.  In case of such cancellation, the matter may be referred to the County
Counsel for an opinion.  In such case, it shall be unlawful for any person to exercise any right
granted by the Hearings Officer, Planning Director, or the  Board of Commissioners pursuant to
such application.
119.150.  SPECIFIC CONDITIONAL USES.
(A) Manufactured Home Parks.  After holding a publi c hearing pursuant to Chapter 111
of the Zoning Ordinance,  the Hearings Officer may permit a manufactured home
park to be located in the RL, RM, RH or CO zone as a conditional use, subject to the
conditions and provisions herein set forth.  Without qualifying as a conditional use,
manufactured home parks may be located in the CR, CG, or IC zone, subject to the
minimum requirements set forth in subsections (1) and (3).  The intent of this section
is to permit, after appropriate review, and subject to minimum standards and
conditions, the construction of new manufactured home parks only as a form of
multi-family or  apartment-type facilities.  It is not the intent of this section to regulate
the placement of individual manufactured homes or vacation trailers on separate,
individual lots, either separately or in conjunction with a dwelling or any other
building in the RM zone.
(1) Minimum Requirements.  All newly developed manu factured home parks and
additions to existing manufactured home parks in CR, CG or IC zones are
subject to the minimum standards and conditions set forth in this section.  The
Hearings Officer may prescribe such additional conditions for manufactured
home parks in an RL, RM, RH or CO zone as the particular circumstances may
require for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the residents in
the vicinity of the development consistent with the intent and provisions of this
ordinance.
(a) Density:  The maximum density of a manufactured  home park shall not
exceed 12 manufactured homes per gross acre.
(b) Minimum Area:  No manufactured home space shall  contain less than
2,000 square feet and the average area of all manufactured home spaces
within a manufactured home park shall not contain less than 3,000 square
feet and no yard, area, driveway, play area, service area or other area
required by this ordinance shall be considered as providing any part of
the required manufactured home space.
(c) Yards:
(i) Adjacent to any street, there shall be a yard o f at least 20 feet in
depth, measured from the street right-of-way line of such street,
unless such yard be adjacent to a street with a special setback line,
as described in Chapter 112 of the Zoning Ordinance,  in which
case the greater requirement shall prevail.
(ii) Adjacent to any property line, other than alon g a street, there shall
be a building, dwelling or other main building for the first story of
such building.  Accessory buildings may occupy not more than 25
percent of such yard area and may not come closer than five (5)
feet to any property line or exceed 15 feet in height.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-5
(d) Driveways:  All driveways shall be paved with a n asphaltic material or
concrete and shall be properly drained and shall be a minimum width of
20 feet.  In addition, if parking along the driveway is to be permitted,
there shall be provided a parking lane of a least eight (8) feet in width for
each side of the driveway on which parking is to be permitted.  As a
condition to permitting a manufactured home park, the Hearings Officer
may require the erection of signs prohibiting parking when sufficient
parking facilities are not provided.
(e) Parking:  There shall be provided at least one (1) automobile parking
space for each manufactured home space, plus one (1) additional
automobile parking space for every three (3) manufactured home spaces
or any portion thereof for guests, visitors, service vehicles and additional
automobiles of the tenants of the manufactured home park.
(f) Walks:  Provisions shall be made for hard-surfa ced, well-drained walks,
not less than 30 inches in width, from each manufactured home space to
the park service building and to a paved street.
(g) Lighting:  There shall be provisions for adequa te night lighting of
common driveways and walks in the manufactured home park.
(h) Play areas:  If the manufactured home park acco mmodates children under
14 years of age, there shall be provided a separate play area restricted to
that use.  At least 100 square feet of play area shall be provided per
manufactured home space;  provided, however, that no such play area,
regardless of the number of manufactured home spaces, shall be less than
2,500 square feet.  The play area will be protected from all streets,
driveways, and playing areas by a fence, or the equivalent, at least 30
inches in height.
(i) Fences:  The Hearings Officer may require that an ornamental fence,
wall, or hedge be established and maintained between the manufactured
home park and other land use.
(j) Signs:  Sign requirements shall be the same as for an apartment house in
the RM zone.
(k) Street Names:  If the private driveways are to be named and street
addresses assigned to the individual manufactured home space, they will
be named and numbered in accordance with the ordinances of the
County.
(l) Water, sewer and surface drainage:  Adequate pr ovisions shall be made
for an ample supply of safe and potable water, and adequate provisions
shall be made for sewage disposal and surface drainage and plans for
such must have prior approval of the Environmental Health Department
and Director of Public Works/County Engineer, before an manufactured
home park is approved as a conditional use by the Hearings Officer.
(m) Minimum width:  No manufactured home space shal l be less than 30 feet
in width at its driveway frontage.
(n) Boundaries of Space:  The boundaries of each ma nufactured home space
shall be clearly defined and marked by a fence, planting or other suitable
means approved by the Hearings Officer or by clearly visible, permanent
markers at each corner of the space.
(o) Minimum Distances:  Exclusive of trailer hitche s, which shall not project
beyond the manufactured home space, the minimum distance between a
manufactured home and:
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-6
(i) Any other manufactured home shall be 15 feet.
(ii) Any building, except when attached to the manu factured home,
shall be ten (10) feet.
(iii) Any property line (excluding manufactured hom e space
boundaries) shall be ten (10) feet.
(iv) Any public street shall be 20 feet.
(v) Any common driveway or common walk (excluding t hose in a
manufactured home space) shall be five (5) feet.
(p)  Manufactured home space coverage:  Not more than 40 percent of a
manufactured home space may be occupied by a manufactured home and
any other structures used in conjunction with such manufactured home
whether or not it is attached to the manufactured home.
(q)  Addition to manufactured homes:  Carports, cabanas, ramadas, awnings
and all other structures, whether defined herein or not, which are situated
upon a manufactured home space, shall conform to the requirements of
the county building code and Environmental Health Department
regulations.  Such additions and structures shall be considered as a
portion of the manufactured home for determining the extent of lot
coverage, setback lines and all other requirements for manufactured
homes in like manner as if such additions and structures were a part of
such manufactured home.
(r) Patio:  Each manufactured home space shall have  a slab or patio of
concrete, asphalt or flagstone or similar substance not less than 20 feet in
length and six (6) feet in width adjacent to each manufactured home
parking site.
(s) Parking of manufactured homes: manufactured hom e parks in an RL,
RM, RH or CO zones may accommodate only manufactured homes and
not vacation trailers, except for storage.  A manufactured home shall not
remain overnight in a manufactured home park unless it is parked in a
manufactured home space.  Not more than one (1) manufactured home
will be parked at one time in a manufactured home space.
(2) EXPANSION OR ALTERATION OF MANUFACTURED HOME PA RKS.
Existing manufactured home parks may be expanded or altered after approval
is obtained from the Hearings Officer.  The application, filed by the owner or
other part in interest, will be filed and processed in the same manner as an
application for a new manufactured home park.  The Hearings Officer, in
granting permission for expansion of any existing park, shall require that those
portions of the existing park which do not meet the minimum standards be
brought to these minimum standards.  The Hearings Officer may attach such
conditions to the granting of permission to expand the manufactured home
park as will ensure that the existing park will meet the established standards.
(3) BUILDING CODE AND BUILDING PERMITS.  All struct ures within a
manufactured home park shall comply with the provisions of the County
building code.  Building permits shall be obtained prior to construction of any
portion of the manufactured home park facilities.
(4) TEMPORARY WAIVERS.  The Hearings Officer may, a t the time of the
approval of the manufactured home park as a conditional use, grant a
temporary waiver of the conditions in Section 119.150 (A) for a maximum
time of six (6) months.  Such waiver may be renewed by the Hearings Officer
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-7
on application by the owner for one (1) additional six (6) month period.  Any
requests for a permanent waiver shall be considered a request for a variance.
(5) VARYING REQUIREMENTS OF THIS AMENDMENT.  The He arings
Officer may, at the time of granting a manufactured home park conditional use,
vary one or more of the requirements of Section 119.150 (A) in the same
manner as any other provision of this ordinance may be varied as provided in
Chapter 122, however, when such variances are requested at the same time as
the application for a conditional use is filed, such variance request may be
processed concurrently with the conditional use application and will not
require an additional filing fee, separate public hearing, or separate notice of
public hearing.  [Amended by ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
(B) Duplex on a Corner Lot.  The Planning Director may permit a duplex on a corner lot
as a conditional use in any zone where it is permitted  provided:
(1) The lot shall have at least 7,000 square feet;
(2) Only one (1) dwelling unit of a duplex on a cor ner lot shall be permitted to face
upon any one (1) street, and that the second unit shall face upon the
intersecting street;
(3) The yards adjacent to any public right-of-way s hall be 20 feet in depth; and
(4) The rear yard may be 14 feet in depth for a one  (1)-story duplex and 20 feet in
depth for a two (2)-story duplex, which yard may be provided adjacent to either
interior lot line.
(C) Boat, Camper and Trailer Storage Area or Lot.  The Planning Director may permit a
boat, camper, and trailer storage are or lot as a conditional use in any zone where it is
permitted provided:
(1) No sales area, retail business, or service may be operated in connection
therewith, nor shall any substantial maintenance or repair of any vehicle or
equipment stored thereon be conducted on the premises, whether by the owner
or otherwise, unless such work be performed wholly within a building;
(2) The front yard and any other yard adjacent to a  street shall be landscaped with
an evergreen ground cover; further, that this landscaping shall be adequately
and permanently maintained;
(3) Any ornamental sight-obscuring fence, or wall, having a height of at least six
(6) feet, or a compact evergreen hedge not less than three (3) feet in height
when planted and capable of reaching at least six (6) feet within three (3) years
be placed at the front yard setback line and at the setback line of any other yard
adjacent to a street, and along all other property lines; provided, however, that
the Planning Director may require additional screening and landscaping where
topography or other special conditions indicate such to be necessary to
adequately screen the area;
(4) The lot be paved in conformity with Section 112 .280, with an oiled mat or
gavelled and maintained in a manner so that dust shall be reasonably
controlled;
(5) Lighting shall be so oriented to not shine or r eflect upon abutting properties nor
into the travelling lanes of any street in such a manner so as to constitute a
nuisance;
(6) Any building used in conjunction with the stora ge lot shall conform to all yard
setbacks as for the main buildings in the SR zone, and said building shall be
architecturally designed and constructed of materials compatible with the
residential development of the subdivision or neighborhood; and
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-8
(7) The area be operated by a non-profit neighborho od homeowners association.
[Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
(D) Temporary Use of a Manufactured Home or a Trail er During Certain Hardship
Conditions.  Not withstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, the Planning
Director may permit the use of a manufactured dwelling on a temporary basis, as a
conditional use in a the RL, RM, and RH zones during a family hardship condition.
Such permit may be granted for a period of not more than two (2) years and may be
renewed for successive periods of two (2) years on a proper showing that such
hardship condition continues to exist.  It is not the intent of this section to subvert the
intent of these zones by permitting more than one (1) permanent residence on each
property.  The Planning Director may, in the granting of the request for the temporary
use permit, impose conditions that will preclude the possibility of such temporary use
becoming permanent.  [Amended by Ordinance #219, dated September 22, 1978 and Ordinance #88-21, dated
November 30, 1988.  Subsection 120.040 amended by O rdinance #95-12.]
The term "Hardship" means a condition relating to the physical health of the infirm
or persons otherwise incapable of maintaining a complete, separate and detached
residence apart from their family.  Such condition shall be certified by a physician
familiar with the individual(s) involved.  [Adopted by Ordinance #219, dated September 22, 1978.
Amended by Ordinance #95-12, dated December 13, 1995.]
(E) Custom Cabinet Shop and Sales Firm.   The Planning Director may permit a custom
cabinet shop and sales firm as a conditional use in any zone where it is permitted
provided:
(1) All activities, including finished products and  materials storage, are to be
conducted wholly within a building;
(2) Loading and unloading operations are conducted throughout the sides of the
building which are not abutting, adjacent to, or across a street from any
residential or CO zone;
(3) All parking, loading and yard areas are maintai ned in a neat and clean manner;
(4) Hours of operations shall be limited from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.;
(5) All parking and loading areas are paved with an  asphaltic or comparable
permanent surface;
(6) Two (2) percent of the gross lot area shall be landscaped.  Detailed landscape
plans shall be submitted with the application for approval by the Planning
Director; and,
(7) Provided that the County Building Official issu es a Certificate of Occupancy
prior to use of the building and site, after determining that the conditions set
forth herein are fully satisfied.  In the event such conditions are not
continuously met, the Certificate of Occupancy shall be subject to revocation
upon 30 days notice.
[Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
(F)  Church Conference and Campground.  A church conference and campground, may
be permitted by the Planning Director as a conditional use in any zone where it is
permitted.  The Planning Director may attach appropriate conditions and grant the
application to promote the appropriate integration of the development with the
surrounding area.  [Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
(G) Rural Transportation Improvements.  For transpo rtation uses or improvements listed
in Section 136.050(R)(3) through (6) and (14) of Exclusive Farm Use Zone (Chapter
136) and in Sections 177.040(V)(6) through (9) and (17) of the Timber Conservation
Zone (Chapter 177), the Planning Director or hearings body shall, in addition to
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 119.doc                 119-9
demonstrating compliance with Section 136.060 or Section 177.050, whichever is
applicable:
(1) Identify reasonable build design alternatives, such as alternatives that are safe
and can be constructed at a reasonable cost, not considering raw land cost, with
available technology;
(2) Assess the effects of the identified alternativ es on farm and forest practices,
considering impacts to farm and forest lands, structures and facilities,
considering the effects of traffic on the movement of farm and forest vehicles
and equipment, and considering the effects of access to parcels created on farm
and forest lands; and
(3) Select from the identified alternatives, the on e, or combination of identified
alternatives that has the least impact on lands in the immediate vicinity devoted
to farm or forest use.
A finding of compliance with subsections (1), (2) and (3) above, may be made for those
transportation uses or improvements identified in an acknowledged amendment to the
Transportation System Plan to include a refinement plan adopted pursuant to OAR 660, Division
12.  The Planning Director or hearings body shall prescribe restrictions or limitations on the
transportation use or improvement in order to minimize accessibility to rural lands from the
proposed facility and to support continued rural use of surrounding land.”
[Amended by Ordinance #01-
10, dated November 14, 2001.]