F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 173.doc                    173-1
CHAPTER 173
GREENWAY MANAGEMENT OVERLAY (GM) ZONE
173.010. Purpose
173.020 Application of the Overlay Zone
173.030. Site Development Requirements
173.040. Permitted Uses
173.050. Conditional Uses
173.060. Conditions
173.070. Notification
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 173.doc                    173-2
173.010.  PURPOSE.  The purpose of the Greenway Management Overlay Zone (GM) is the
following:
(A) To protect the natural, scenic and recreation q ualities of lands along the Willamette
River in Polk County;
(B) To preserve and allow for the restoration of hi storical sites, structures, and facilities
along the Willamette River;
(C) To implement the goals and policies of the Stat e of Oregon's Willamette River
Greenway Program;
(D) To implement the goals and policies of Polk Cou nty's Comprehensive Plan;
(E) To establish standards and requirements for the  use of lands within the Willamette
River Greenway in Polk County; and
(F) To provide for the review of any intensificatio n of use, change of use, or
development on properties located within the Willamette River Greenway of Polk
County.
173.020.  APPLICATION OF THE OVERLAY ZONE.
(A) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to a ll lands within the Willamette River
Greenway of Polk County.
(B) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to l ands within the Willamette River
Greenway of Polk County in addition to any standards and requirements of the Flood
Plain Overlay Zone that may apply to such lands.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be
construed to constitute a waiver or suspension of the provisions of any primary zone
or Flood Plain Overlay Zone within the Willamette River Greenway.  In the case of
any conflict between the provisions of this Chapter and the provisions of any other
chapter of this Ordinance, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
173.030.  SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.   For any lot or parcel located within
the Willamette River Greenway of Polk County the requirements for the following shall be
determined by the primary zone except when such requirements are specifically modified by this
Chapter.
(A) Minimum area;
(B) Maximum density;
(C) Front yard;
(D) Side yard;
(E) Rear yard;
(F) Building height;
(G) Lot or parcel coverage;
(H) Off-street parking and loading; and
(I) Signs
173.040.  PERMITTED USES.   Within any Greenway Management Zone, no structure shall be
used, constructed, erected, or altered and no lot or parcel shall be used or occupied for any
purposes except the following:
(A) Customary dredging and channel maintenance cond ucted under permit from the State
of Oregon;
(B) Seasonal increases in gravel operations as prov ided under permit from the State of
Oregon;
(C) The placing by a public agency of signs, marker s, aids, etc., to serve the public;
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 173.doc                    173-3
(D) Activities to protect, conserve, enhance, and m aintain public recreational, scenic,
historical, and natural uses of public lands, except that a substantial increase in the
level of development of existing public recreational, scenic, historical, or natural uses
on public lands shall require review as provided by this Chapter;
(E) Erosion control operations not requiring a perm it from the Division of State Lands;
(F) Agriculture as defined in ORS 215.203 (2);
(G) Reasonable emergency procedures necessary for t he safety or protection of property;
(H) Maintenance and repair usual and necessary for the continuance of an existing use;
(I) Landscaping, construction of driveways, repair or maintenance of existing structures
and the construction or placement of accessory structures other than guest houses,
provided that such activities are conducted in conjunction with uses already existing
on the same property and that they are accomplished in a manner compatible with the
purpose of this Chapter;
(J) The propagation of timber or the cutting of tim ber which is done for public safety or
personal non-commercial use or which does not require a permit in accordance with
the Forest Practices Act;
(K) Uses legally existing on the effective date of this Ordinance; any change or
intensification of such use, however, shall require review as provided by this
Ordinance.
173.050.  CONDITIONAL USES.
(A) All uses permitted in the primary zone but not permitted in the Greenway
Management Zone, and all partitions and subdivisions, shall be considered
conditional uses.  Such uses shall be subject to the general provisions of Chapter 119
of this Ordinance, "Conditional Uses."
(B) An application for a conditional use in the Gre enway shall be approved by the
Hearings Officer or the Planning  Director only if the proposed activity is found to be
in substantial compliance with a majority of the following applicable criteria:
(1) Agricultural lands will be preserved and mainta ined for farm use.
(2) Significant fish and wildlife habitats will be protected.
(3) Identified natural and scenic areas, viewpoints  and vistas will be preserved.
(4) Areas of ecological, scientific, historical or archeological significance will be
protected, preserved, restored, or enhanced to the maximum extent possible.
(5) The quality of the air, water and land resource s in and adjacent to the
Greenway will be preserved to the maximum possible extent in the
development, change of use, or intensification of use of land within the
Greenway Management Zone.
(6) Areas of annual flooding, floodplain, and wetla nds will be preserved in their
natural state to the maximum possible extent to protect water retention,
overflow, and natural functions.
(7) The natural vegetative fringe along the river w ill be maintained to the
maximum extent that is practical in order to assure scenic quality, protection of
wildlife, protection from erosion, and screening the uses from the river.
(8) The harvesting of timber will be done in a mann er which will ensure that
wildlife habitat and natural scenic qualities of the Greenway be maintained or
will be restored.
(9) The proposed development, change, or intensific ation of use is compatible with
the site, and the surrounding area.
(10) The proposed development, change or intensific ation of use, if located within
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 173.doc                    173-4
50 feet of the ordinary high water line, is a water-dependent use.
(11) Areas considered for development, change or in tensification of use which have
erosion potential will be protected from loss by appropriate means which are
compatible with the provisions of the Greenway Management Zone.
(12) Extraction of aggregate deposits will be condu cted in a manner designed to
minimize adverse effects on water quality, fish and wildlife, vegetation, bank
stabilization, guarantee necessary reclamation.
(13) Any public recreational use or facility will n ot substantially interfere with the
long-term capacity of the land for farm use.
(14) Any public recreational use or facility will b e developed, maintained, and
operated in such a way as to minimize adverse affects on adjacent properties.
(15) Maintenance of public safety and protection of  public and private property,
especially from vandalism and trespass, will be provided to the maximum
extent practicable.
(16) A minimum building setback line of 50 feet fro m the ordinary high water line
of the Willamette River will be provided except for non-residential structures
provided in conjunction with farm use and except for buildings and structures
in conjunction with a water-related or a water dependent use
(17) Necessary public access will be provided to an d along the Willamette River by
appropriate legal means for all development except development related to
agriculture or development of single-family residences and accessory structure
when such development occurs for the personal use of the property owner.
(18) The development will be located away from the river to the greatest possible
extent.
(19) The development, change, or intensification of  use provides the maximum
possible landscaped area, open space, or vegetation between the activity and
the river.  [AMENDED BY ORDINANCE #88-21, DATED NOVEMBER 30, 1988.]
173.060.  CONDITIONS.   The Planning Director or Hearings Officer, shall have the power to
impose, conditions, restrictions, or limitations upon a conditional use in the Greenway
Management Zone if such conditions, restrictions, or limitations are found to be necessary in
order to accomplish one or more of the following:
(A) To protect the public health, safety, or welfar e;
(B) To protect the health or safety of any person i n the vicinity of the proposed
conditional use;
(C) To protect property or improvements in the vici nity of the proposed conditional use;
or
(D) To accomplish the purpose of the Greenway Manag ement Zone.
173.070.  NOTIFICATION.   Notification regarding requests for conditional uses in the
Greenway Management Zone will be done in accordance with the procedures established for all
conditional uses in Chapters 119 and 111 of this Ordinance.  In addition, notification regarding
such requests shall be sent to the Oregon State Department of Transportation and to the Polk
County Soil and Water Conservation District.  Notification of the Oregon State Parks
Department shall be given by certified mail, return receipt requests, and shall be sent within
seven days of the receipt of the application for the conditional use.  Notification of the Polk
County Soil and Water Conservation District shall be given in accordance with the notification
procedures established for conditional uses in this Ordinance.