CH
APTER 64 2023
CONS
TRUCTION EROSION, SEDIMENT AND RUNOFF CONTROL
64.010
Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
"A
pplicant" means the owner of real property or the owner's authorized agent. "Applicant" includes
any person who would be required to obtain a Polk County permit or exemption approval, but who
neglects or otherwise fails to do so.
"A
uthorized agent" means the developer, architect, contractor, engineer, builder, personal
representative, or anyone designated by the owner to have control or supervision of a site involving
construction site activity.
"C
ommon plan of development" means a contiguous construction project or projects where multiple
separate and distinct construction activities may be taking place at different times on different
schedules but under one plan.
"C
onstruction site" means a location where a Polk County land use or building permit or exemption
approval is required.
"Co
nstruction site activity" means any ground disturbing activities at a location where a Polk
County permit or exemption approval is required.
"D
irector" means the director of the Polk County department of public works or the director's
designee.
"E
mergency" has the same meaning as found in ORS 401.025.
"E
rosion" means the wearing away of the ground surface, or the movement, detachment or
dislocation and transport of sediment including soil particles by the action of water or wind.
"E
xemption approval" means an exemption from the requirement to obtain a building permit for an
agricultural building.
"Fin
al stabilization" is determined by satisfying the following criteria: (1) there is no reasonable
potential for discharge of a significant amount of construction related sediment or turbidity to
surface waters; (2) construction materials and waste have been removed and disposed of properly.
This includes any sediment that was being retained by temporary erosion and sediment controls; (3)
all temporary erosion and sediment controls have been removed and disposed of properly, unless
doing so conflicts with local requirements; (4) all ground disturbing activities have stopped and all
stormwater discharges from construction activities that are authorized by this permit have ceased;
(5) all disturbed or exposed areas of the site are covered by either final vegetative stabilization or
permanent stabilization measures. However, temporary or permanent stabilization measures are not
required for areas that are intended to be left unvegetated or unstabilized following construction
(such as dirt access roads, utility pole pads, areas being used for storage of vehicles, equipment, or
m
aterials); provided, that measures are in place to eliminate or minimize erosion.
"G
round disturbing activities" means any activity that exposes soil, including, but not limited to,
construction, landscaping, removal of vegetation, stockpiling of soil or construction debris, grading,
excavating, filling, clearing, trenching, drilling, transport or fill, or utility work, or working of land
at a particular location.
"N
onresidential development" means a development in which living units are not included or
individual living units are not separately owned.
"O
perations and maintenance manual" means a written document containing policies and
procedures related to the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement requirements for all
structural, vegetative, and management practices installed and relating to stormwater control
systems for a development described in the Polk County Storm Water Management Program
(SWMP).
"P
ublic storm drainage and surface water system" means natural or manmade drainage courses for
the conveyance of surface water.
"Re
sidential development' means a development in which individual living units are separately
owned.
"Se
diment" means finely divided loose material that can be suspended and transported in water or
air and may originate from disturbed soil, landscaping, or construction activities or materials.
"S
torm event" means a storm event (as defined at 40 CFR 122.21 (g)(7)(ii)) with greater than 0.1
inch of rainfall and at least 72 hours after the previously measurable storm event with greater than
0.1 inch of rainfall.
"S
tormwater management area" means an area designated as a stormwater management area by the
Department of Environmental Quality under Polk County jurisdiction.
"S
tormwater treatment facilities" means a storm collection and conveyance system, operated and
maintained by the county or by a private property owner, located outside the building envelope
which serves one or multiple building storm drains, catch basins, area drains, or other drainage
facilities.
(Construction Erosion and Sediment Control)
60.015 Pur
pose
The purpose of this chapter is to minimize the amount of sediment reaching waterways, wetlands,
and the public storm drainage and surface water system for the duration of construction site
activities, which complies with Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NP-DES), a federal permit that requires the operator of a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems
(MS4) to implement Best Management Practices (BMPs) to prevent construction site runoff
64.020
 Permit Required
An erosion prevention and sediment control permit is required inside a stormwater management
area if construction site activity(ies) will expose at least one quarter of an acre (10,890 square feet)
of
 soil, either in isolation or as part of a common plan of development.
64.030
 Erosion Prevention and Sediment Control Plan
(1) An erosion prevention and sediment control plan with a certified engineer stamp is required
for all erosion prevention and sediment control permits. The plan must be submitted by the
applicant and approved by the director for issuance of the erosion prevention and sediment control
permit, prior to the issuance of Polk County permit of exemption approval and commencement of
ground disturbing activities. The plan must contain protection techniques that will eliminate runoff
situation created from the construction activity both during and after construction. Site-specific
considerations shall be incorporated.
(2) T
he erosion prevention and sediment control plan must include sizing criteria, performance
criteria, design specifications, guidance on selection and placement of controls, and specifications
for long-term operation and maintenance, including appropriate inspection intervals and a self-
inspection checklist.
(3) T
he county may require that the applicant design and construct a temporary drainage system
that will ensure any off-site impacts caused by the construction site activity can be mitigated.
(4) T
he Polk County department of public works may perform inspections to ensure compliance
with this chapter at the discretion of the director.
(5) T
he erosion prevention and sediment control plan is required to be kept on site and available
for review by inspectors.
(6) T
he erosion prevention and sediment control plan must include clear steps for project phase
completion, final stabilization, and permit closure.
64.
040 Permit Fee
The county may establish a fee for review of plans and inspections required by this chapter by order
of the board of commissioners. The board of commissioners shall set the fee to recover the public
works department costs of providing an applicant's erosion prevention and sediment control permit,
inspections, and plan review.
64.050
 Construction Site Deposits on Public Streets and into Storm Drains
No person shall cause or allow visible and measurable erosion or sediment related to construction
site activity inside a stormwater management area as defined herein to enter the public storm
drainage and surface water system. Any person causing visible and measurable erosion or sediment
shall immediately abate or remove it. The removal shall be accomplished by hand labor or approved
mechanical means.
64.060
 Maintenance
(1) The applicant shall maintain all erosion and sediment control measures in proper
functioning order for the duration of the ground disturbing activities or until adequate ground cover
has been established.
(2) T
he applicant shall inspect, maintain, adjust, repair, and replace erosion and sediment
control measures as necessary within 24 hours following a storm event to ensure that the measures
are functioning properly.
(3) Du
ring active ground disturbing activity, the applicant shall inspect and maintain erosion
and sediment control measures weekly or within 24 hours of a storm event.
(4) T
he erosion prevention and sediment control plan must be maintained and updated as site
conditions change, to prevent sediment or pollutant contaminated water from leaving the site.
(5) P
ermit finalization requires one of the following to be achieved:
(
a) Individual lots or phases of a qualifying common plan of development obtain individual
erosion prevention and sediment control permit coverage prior to the issuance of Polk County
permit(s) or exemption approval(s). The director shall be notified of sale of individual lots or phases
of a common plan of development no less than 14 calendar days prior to the date of closing. Until
such time as an individual erosion prevention and sediment control permit is obtained, the lot or
phases sold shall continue to be the responsibility of the overall development's erosion prevention
and sediment control permit.
(b) F
inal stabilization.
64.070
  Falsifying Information
No person shall knowingly make any false statement, representation, or certification in any
application, record, report, plan, or other document filed or required to be  maintained pursuant to
this chapter.
64.080
 Stop Work Orders
(1) I
n the event there is a violation of this chapter and it is necessary to obtain compliance with
this chapter, the director may issue a stop work order requiring that all work, except work directly
related to the elimination of the violation, be immediately and completely stopped. If the director
issues a stop work order, the applicant shall not resume work until such time as the director gives
specific approval in writing. The stop work order shall include:
(a) T
he date of the stop work order;
(b) T
he erosion prevention and sediment control permit and/or permit or exemption
approval number if applicable;
(c) T
he site address, legal description or location applicable to the stop work order;
(d) A de
scription of all violations; and
(e) T
he conditions under which the work may resume.
(2) T
he stop work order shall be in writing and posted in a conspicuous loc ation at the site.
Other means of communication of the stop work order may be exercised in the discretion of the
director.
(3) N
o person may remove, obscure, mutilate or otherwise damage a stop work order.
(4
) A stop work order shall be effective upon posting or upon verbal delivery under subsection
(5) of this section.
(5) Wh
en an emergency condition exists, the director may issue a stop work order verbally. A
written stop work order shall be posted in a conspicuous location at the site within 24 hours of the
verbal order.
(Pos
t Construction Runoff Control)
64.1
00  Purpose
The purpose PCCO 64.100-64.250 is to reduce pollutants in and quantity of stormwater reac hing
waterways, wetlands, and the public storm drainage and surface water system generated after the
completion of development improvements in a stormwater management area as denned by the
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.
64.
110  Engineering Standards
The stormwater quality treatment standards applicable to developed sites under PCCO 64.100-
64.250 shall be the City of Salem Department of Public Works Standard Drawings, and they shall
specify exactly what kinds of permanent stormwater treatment facilities are required (if any) for a
developed site.
64.
120  Permit Required
(1) The City of Salem Department of Public Works Standard Drawings  shall establish under
what circumstances an on -site stormwater drainage permit is required inside a stormwater
management area. The permit  shall require an applicant to install any applicable sto rmwater
treatment facilities as required by the City of Salem Department of Public Works  Standard
Drawings effect on the date of the applicant's application for a  Polk County land use or building
permit or exemption approval.
(2) T
he permit shall include an operation and maintenance manual. For commercial or
residential development, the applicant shall prepare the manual. For a single-family residence with a
stormwater treatment facility that serves  the residence exclusively, the county sha ll supply the
manual and document to be recorded with the County Clerk.
64.130
  On-Site Stormwater Drainage Plan
(1) A
n on-site stormwater drainage plan is required for all on-site stormwater drainage permits.
The plan must be submitted by the applicant and approved by the director for issuance of the on-site
stormwater drainage permit, prior to the issuance of a Polk County land use or building permit or
exemption approval and commencement of work at the construction site. The plan must contain
protection techniques that will eliminate runoff situation  created after the completion of the
development, Site-specific considerations shall be incorporated.
(2) If
 landscaping is part of the stormwater treatment facilities, then the applicant must prepare
and submit for approval with the on-site stormwater drainage plan a detailed plan for management
of vegetation at the site after con struction, which shall be attached to the  maintenance agreement
and the operations and maintenance manual. The plan shall include a description of what practices
will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetation cover is preserved.
(3) Th
e department of  public works shall perform at least one inspection of stormwater
treatment facilities requi red under an on- site stormwater drainage permit during installation to
ensure compliance with this chapter and the permit. The department of public works shall perform
at least  one inspection of stormwater treatment facilities required under an on -site sto rmwater
drainage permit shortly after completion of installation to ensure compliance with this chapter and
the permit.
64.140 Ma
intenance Responsibility
(1) Un
less otherwise approved by the county, Polk County shall maintain stormwater treatment
facilities serving residential development or public rights-of-way created pursuant to a development
application submitted after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Polk County
shall not maintain stormwater treatment facilities which serve a single-family residence exclusively.
(2) T
he owner of property containing stormwater treatment facilities maintained by Polk
County pursuant to subsection ( 1) of this  section shal l execute a surface and stormwater
management easement and a stormwater treatment facility access easement to Polk County in a
form sufficient to the County.
(3) U
nless otherwise approved by the county, the applicant for a development creating multiple
parcels intended for separate ownership shall enclose the stormwater treatment facilities maintained
by Polk County pursuant to subsection (1) of this section in a separate tract, if doing so is consistent
with the minimum lot size standards for the applicable zone.
64.150 Ma
intenance Agreement
(1) A
n applicant for a nonresidential development or a sing le-family residence with a
stormwater treatment facility that serves the residence exclusively which is required to obtain an on-
site stormwater drainage permit shall execute a maintenance agreement in a form acceptable to
Polk County to ensure that the stormwater treatment facilities function consistently with the City of
Salem Department of Public Works  Standard Drawings in effect on the  date of the applicant's
application for a Polk County land use or building permit or exemption approval. This agreement
will:
(a) A
uthorize Polk County public works staff to access the stormwater treatment
facilities at the site for the purpose of inspe ction to ensure continued compliance with the City of
Salem Department of Public Work s Standard Drawings in effect on the date of the applicant's
application for a Polk County land use or building permit or exemption approval.
(b) For a nonresidential development, require the current owner to have an operations
and maintenance manual available on site at all  times. The current owner shall keep a record of
maintenance and repairs for the last five years, which shall be available for inspection at a
reasonable time and in a reasonable manner by Polk County public works staff.
(c) Expr
essly run with the land and be binding on applicant's successors and assigns.
(d) A
uthorize Polk County public works staff to enter the subject property in order to
make any repairs necessary, at the owner's expense, to restore the stormwater treatment facilities at
the site to a condition consistent with the City of Salem Department of Pu blic Works Standard
Dr
awings in effect on the date of the applicant's application for a Polk County land use or building
permit or exemption approval in the event that  the present condition of the stormwater treatment
facilities poses an imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare.
(2) A
fter an applicant executes a maintenance ag reement, the applicant shall record the
maintenance agreement in the Polk County real property deed records.
(3) A
ny violation of an executed maintenance agreement shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
64.16
0 Notice of Violation
(1) Wh
enever the director finds that a condition exists on an owner's property that constitutes a
violation of PCCO 64.100-64.250, the director may order compliance by written notice of violation
to the property owner. The notice may require without limitation:
(
a) The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
(b) T
he maintenance of vegetation;
(c) T
he cessation of all violating discharges, practices, or operations;
(d) The
 abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and
the restoration of any affected property; and
(e) T
he implementation of  source control or treatment best management practices
directed by the director.
(2) The
 notice shall:
(a) D
escribe the property by street address or tax lot number;
(b) D
escribe the nature of the violation;
(c) S
tate by a date certain when the pro perty owner must correct the violation in a
manner acceptable to the director;
(d) I
nform the owner that if the violation is not corrected the county shall either
complete the repairs, seek to compel abatement or cite the owner, as appropriate;
(e) In
form the property owner that if the county performs the necessary abatement or
repairs, the county will bill the property owner for the costs;
(f) In
clude an estimate of the costs antici pated for th is county to abate or repair the
violation;
(g) I
nform the property owner that failure to pay the county for its costs to correct the
violation may result in filing of a lien on the property;
(h
) Inform the property owner of the rights spe lled out in PCC O 64.190-64.220,
including the right to a hearing, and individuals the property owner may contact for additional
information.
(3) The
 notice shall be served on the property owner by any means to  reasonably apprise the
owner of the violation, including but not limited to personal service, or first class mail to the address
of record within the County.
(4) I
f a stormwater treatment facility is maintained by the county, the owner is not responsible
for violations of this chapter other than violations caused by the owner.
64.170
  Abatement and/or Repair of Violation
If the property owner has not corrected the violation as directed within the time  allowed in the
notice given pursuant to PCCO 64.160 the director may take all measures necessary t o abate the
violation and/or restore the property. The director or persons authorized by the director may enter
upon property to abate and/or restore the property upon obtaining consent of the property owner or
through a court issued warrant.
64.180
 Emergency Abatement
The director is authorized to require immediate abatement of any violation of this chapter that
constitutes an immediate threat to the health,  safety or well -being of the public. The director or
persons authorized by the director may enter upon property to abate and/or restore the property upon
obtaining consent of the property owner or through a court-issued warrant.
64.190
  Collection of Costs
(1) Th
e county may collect all costs associated with the repair or abatement of a violation, or
both, from the property owner.
(2) T
he county shall keep detailed records of all costs associated with the abatement or repair
due to a violation of this chapter.
(3) U
pon completion of the abatement or repair of the violation by the county, a notice of final
costs shall be se rved on the owner by personal serve consistent with 64.160(3) Payment must be
made within 30 days from the date of the notice of final cos ts. The notice must  contain the
following:
(a) T
he total cost of repair or abatement, or both;
(b) A
 statement that the total cost may be filed as a lien with the county clerk unless
paid within 60 days from the date of the hearings officer's order described in PCCO 64.220
(c) A
 statement that the owner may contest the charges at a hearing th at will be
scheduled on the matter pursuant to PCCO 64.220
64.200
  Hearing Request
A property owner who is served with a notice of violation as described in PCC O 64.160 may
request a hearing before the Polk County hearings officer. Hearing requests must bs filed in writing
with the Polk County hearings officer within five business days from the date the notice was served.
64.21
0  Hearing on Notice of Violation
(1) U
pon receiving a written request for a hearing pursuant to PCC 64.200, the hearings officer
shall set a time and place for a hearing that shall be no more than seven days from the date of filing
of the hearing request, or as soon as practicable. The hearings officer shall  notify the person
requesting a hearing of the time and date of the hearing. The director shall appear and present
evidence pertinent to the alleged violation and its abatement or repair. The owner of the property
may also present evidence before the hearings officer pertinent to the alleged violation and its
abatement or repair.  The county shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence that a violation exists and must be abated or repaired.
(2) F
ailure of the person requesting hearing to appear shall constitute a waiver of the right to
present evidence at the hearing or thereafter.
(3)
After the hearing, the hearings officer shall issue an order containing findings as to whether
the alleged violation does in fact exist, the extent to which the violation exists and (if abatement or
repair is required) shall s et a date for abatement or repair to  be accomplished by the owner. The
hearings officer's order shall be issued within 10 days of the date of the hearing eras soon as
practicable.
(4) T
he decision of the hearings officer is final. Appeal shall be only by w rit of review under
ORS Chapter 34.
64.220 H
earing on Final Costs
(1) A
t the time the notice of final costs is sent to the property owner as described in PCCO
64.190, a copy shall also be sent to the  hearings officer. The hearings officer shall set a time and
place for a hearing that shall be no more than seven days from the date of receipt of  the notice of
final costs by the hearings officer, or as soon as pra cticable. The hearings officer shall notify the
property owner and the director of the time and date of the hearing. The only issue at the hearing
shall be the reasonableness of the cost of abatement or repairs.
(2) F
ailure of the property owner to appear shall constitute a waiver of  the right to present
evidence at the hearing or thereafter.
(3) Af
ter the hearing, the hearings officer shall issue an order within 10 days of the date of the
hearing, or as soon as practicable, detailing the amount of the final costs that the owner must pay, if
any. The hearings officer's order shall also indicate that the final costs must be paid within 30 days
and if they are not paid within 60 days the county may record a lien in the county clerk lien record.
(4) T
he hearings officer's order of determination shall be final and binding. Appeal shall be only
by writ of review under ORS Chapter 34.
64.230
  Lien Filing Record
If final costs are not paid within 60 days of the hearings officer's order requiring payment of final
costs, the enforcement officer shall record a lien with the Polk County clerk or any other cou nty
clerk of this state. The total amount of final costs shall be recorded as a lien in the county clerk lien
record. The lien provided for herein shall be foreclosed in the manner prescribed by state law for the
en
forcement of liens. Nothing in this section precludes the county from taking other action to collect
the final costs.
64.240  E
nforcement
(1) E
nforcement of citations under this chapter shall be pursuant to PCCO chapter 50.  The
Public Works Director or their designee is hereby authorized to act as an enforcement officer under
this chapter pursuant to PCCO 50.025.
(2) A
ny person cited for a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$500.00 for a noncontinuing violation and a fine of not more than $1 ,000 for a continuing violation.
Each day that this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate violation.
(3) T
he provisions of this chapter are in addition to and not in lieu of any other procedures and
remedies provided by law or Ordinance, including equitable relief and damages.
64.250
  Fees
The board of commissioners may adopt fees necessary to support the stormwater program by board
order.
Cross References:
PCCO Chapter 50 - Enforcement