F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-1
CHAPTER 178
FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE
178.005. Statutory Authorization
178.010. Purpose
178.015. Definitions
178.020. General Provisions
178.030. Uses
178.040. Prohibited Uses
178.050. Development Permit Procedures and Requirem ents
178.060. Conditional Use Permit Procedures and Requ irements
178.070. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
178.080. Variance Procedure
178.090. Warning and Disclaimer
178.100. Map Revisions and Amendments
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-2
178.005.  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.   The Legislature of the State of Oregon has in
ORS 221.916 delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of is citizenry.  Therefore, the
Board of Commissioners of Polk County, Oregon, does ordain as follows:
178.010.  PURPOSE.   It is the purpose of the Floodplain Overlay Zone to regulate the use of
those areas subject to periodic flooding and to permit and encourage the retention of open land
uses that are compatible and harmonious in nature.  In advancing these principles and the general
purposes of the Polk County Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance, the specific intent of
this zone is:
(A) To combine with present zoning requirements, ce rtain restrictions made necessary for
the known floodplains to promote the general health, welfare and safety of the
County.
(B) To minimize the impact due to the establishment  of certain structures and land uses
in areas unfit for human habitation because of danger of flooding, unsanitary
conditions or other hazards.
(C) To minimize danger to public health by protecti ng the water supply and promoting
safe and sanitary drainage.
(D) To reduce the financial burden imposed on the p ublic and governmental units by
frequent and periodic flooding.
(E) To permit certain uses which can be strategical ly located in the floodplain as herein
defined and which will not cause danger to life and property at, above or below their
locations within the floodplain.
(F) To minimize the need for rescue and relief effo rts associated with flooding and
generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
(G) To ensure that potential buyers are notified th at property is in the floodplain.
(H) To ensure that those who occupy the areas withi n floodplains assume responsibility
for their actions.
(I) To minimize damage to public facilities and uti lities such as water and gas mains,
electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains.
178.015.  DEFINITIONS.   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this
ordinance shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
"APPEAL" means a request for a review of the Planning Director's or Building Official's
interpretation of any provisions of this ordinance or a request for a variance.  Such an appeal
shall be made to the Building Inspection Board of Appeals or to the Board of Commissioners.
"BASE FLOOD" means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year, referred to as the '100-year flood.'  Designation on maps always includes the
letters A or V.
"BASEMENT" means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on
all sides.
"DEVELOPMENT" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials located within
floodplains.
"FLOOD" or "FLOODING" means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-3
(1) The overflow of inland or tidal waters and/or
(2) The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of  surface waters from any
source.
"FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM)" means the official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated floodplains (also known as Special Flood Hazard areas)
applicable to the community.
"FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY" means the official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map, and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
"FLOODPLAIN" means the land within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance
of flooding in any given year.  This area is referred to on the Flood Insurance Rate Map as the
"Special Flood Hazard Areas".  Designation on maps always includes the letters A or V.
"FLOODWAY" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
water surface elevation more than one foot.  Floodways are determined by FEMA using a
numerical model.  The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood
waters which carry debris and potential projectiles, along with an elevated erosion potential.
"LOWEST FLOOR" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access
or storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor,
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
non-elevation design requirements of this ordinance found at Section 178.070 (B)(3).
"MANUFACTURED HOME" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities.  For floodplain management purposes the term "manufactured
home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days.
"MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION" means a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
"NEW CONSTRUCTION" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of this ordinance.
“RECREATIONAL VEHICLE” means a vehicle which is:
(a)  Built on a single chassis;
(b)  400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
(c)  Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
(d)  Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
"START OF CONSTRUCTION" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers, or foundation or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure.  For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-4
construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
"STRUCTURE" means a walled and roofed building including a gas or liquid storage tank that is
principally above ground.
"SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT" means any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure,
either:
(1) before the improvement or repair is started, or
(2) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred.  For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the structure.
The term does not, however, include either:
(1) any project for improvement of a structure to c omply with existing state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified
by the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
(2) any alteration of a structure listed on the Nat ional Register of Historic Places or
a State Inventory of Historic Places.
“SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent
of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
"VARIANCE" means a grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this ordinance.
"WATERCOURSE" means any natural or artificial channel in which a flow of water occurs
either continually or intermittently which is identified as having a floodplain on the Polk County
Flood Insurance Rate map.
178.020.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.   The following regulations apply to all areas of special
flood hazards within the jurisdiction of Polk County, Oregon.  The areas of special flood hazard
identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled
“The Flood Insurance Study for Polk County, Oregon, and Incorporated Areas” dated December
19, 2006 and any revisions there to with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and any
revisions there to are hereby adopted by reference and declared a part of this Ordinance.  The
issue of the map most recently adopted by Polk County shall apply.  The Flood Insurance Rate
Maps and Flood Insurance Study are on file at the Polk County Community Development
Department, Polk County Courthouse, Dallas, Oregon.
Proposed revisions to any portion of the Polk County FIRM by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) that would result in changes to the location of floodplain
boundaries shall constitute the initiation of a zone change proceeding by a government body
subject to the standards for such proceedings as described in the Polk County Zoning Ordinance
(PCZO).  A public hearing shall be held and notice of such hearing shall be given to all affected
property owners as provided for by the PCZO.  Notice of such public hearing shall be provided to
FEMA.
As described in Section 178.100, the county or a private party may request that a map be revised
through the issuance of a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR).  LOMR requests which would result
in a change to floodplain boundaries, but not floodway boundaries, and LOMR requests which
would remove from floodplains individual structures or parcels elevated by the placement of fill,
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-5
shall constitute the initiation of a zone change proceeding subject to the standards for such
proceedings as described in the PCZO.  A public hearing shall be held and notice of such hearing
shall be given to all affected property owners as provided for by the PCZO.  Notice of such
public hearing shall be provided to FEMA.
Proposed amendments to the Polk County FIRM which change floodway boundaries only,
including both revisions proposed by FEMA and revisions initiated through the LOMR process,
shall not be considered a zone change proceeding, however, a public hearing shall be held and
notice of such hearing shall be given to all affected property owners.  Notice of such public
hearing shall be provided to FEMA.
When base flood elevation data is not available, the Planning Director shall have the authority to
determine the location of the boundaries of the floodplain where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and the actual field conditions, provided a record is maintained of
any such determination.  In making such a determination, the Planning Director shall obtain,
review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source.  The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation to the Board of Commissioners as provided by
the Zoning Ordinance.
178.030.  USES.   Within the Floodplain Overlay Zone, no uses or structures shall be established
except as provided in the applicable underlying zone and in the provisions of this overlay zone.
Except as provided herein, all uses and floodplain development shall be subject to the issuance of
a development permit or a landuse permit as provided in Section 178.050 and Section 178.060.
The following uses are exempt from the requirements of Chapter 178 of the Polk County Zoning
Ordinance.  These activities may be conducted in a floodplain without obtaining a landuse permit
or a development permit pursuant to Chapter 178 of the Zoning Ordinance.  Such activities must,
however, conform to all other applicable provisions of the Polk County Zoning Ordinance and
the activities shall not fall under the definition of “development”:
(A) The placing by a public agency of signs, marker s, aids, etc. to serve the public;
(B) Activities to protect, conserve, enhance and ma intain public recreational, scenic,
historical, and natural uses of public lands, except that a substantial increase in the
level of development of existing public recreational, scenic, historical, or natural uses
on public lands shall require review by the Planning Director;
(C) Agriculture as defined in ORS 215.203 (2);
(D) The propagation of timber or the cutting of tim ber;
(E) Uses legally existing on the effective date of this Ordinance; any change or
intensification of such use not otherwise permitted in this section, however, shall
require review as provided by this Ordinance.
178.040.  PROHIBITED USES.   It shall be unlawful to erect, alter, maintain or establish in a
floodplain overlay zone any building, use or occupancy not permitted or allowed in the foregoing
provisions, except existing nonconforming uses, which may continue as provided by the Zoning
Ordinance.
(A) Subdivisions are not consistent with the purpos e and intent of this zone and are
hereby prohibited.
(B) Storage of Materials and Equipment.  Materials that are buoyant, flammable,
obnoxious, toxic or otherwise injurious to persons or property if transported by flood
waters are prohibited.  Storage of materials and equipment not having these
characteristics is permissible with a landuse permit, only if the materials and
equipment have low damage potential and are anchored or are readily removable
from the area within the time available after forecasting and warning.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-6
(C) Residential (including the placement of manufac tured homes) and nonresidential
structures shall not be constructed within the adopted regulatory floodway, with the
exception of:
(1) Accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units
or not part of the main structure.
(2) Utility facilities necessary for public service , except commercial facilities for
the purpose of generating power for public sale or use.
Placement of such accessory structures or utility facilities in the floodway shall be
subject to the landuse permit requirements of Section 178.060.
178.050.  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
A development permit shall be obtained from the Polk County Building Department before
construction or structural development begins within any floodplain shown on the Polk County
Flood Insurance Rate Map, excluding areas designated as floodways.  The development permit
shall be for all structures, including manufactured homes, accessory buildings, and bridges for
private use.
The Building Official is responsible for review and approval of all development permits issued
for structural development within floodplains identified on the Polk County Flood Insurance Rate
Map.  Approval of the development permit shall be based upon:
(A) Compliance with the standards for flood hazard reduction described in Section
178.070.
(B) Completion of a National Flood Insurance Progra m Elevation Certificate.  The
Elevation Certificate must be completed by a land surveyor, engineer, or architect for
all structural development in areas within floodplains where the base flood elevation
has been established (zones AE and AH).  The Building Official will complete the
Elevation Certificate for all structural development in all areas within floodplains
where no base flood elevation has been established (zone A).
A National Flood Insurance Program Floodproofing Certificate shall be completed by
a registered professional engineer or architect for all nonresidential development as
described in Section 178.070 (C)(3).
(C)  Review to determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from those
federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required.
178.060.  LANDUSE PERMIT PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
(A) A landuse permit shall be obtained from the Pol k County Community Development
Department prior to commencement of the following types of development:
(1) Located within floodplains established in Secti on 178.020 are areas designated
as floodways.  Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, construction of residential structures (including the placement of
manufactured homes) and nonresidential structures shall not be permitted
within the adopted regulatory floodway subject to compliance with 178.060
(B)(3), with the exception of:
(a) Accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling
units or not part of the main structure.
(b) Utility facilities necessary for public service , except commercial facilities
for the purpose of generating power for public sale or use.
(c) The construction or substantial improvement of bridges, for public or
private use.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-7
(d) Addition or substantial improvement of an exist ing structure.
(2) Non-structural development within any floodplai n identified on the Polk
County Flood Insurance Rate Map requires a landuse permit.  Non-structural
development includes mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.
(3) Alteration of a watercourse which is identified  as having a floodplain as shown
on the Polk County Flood Insurance Rate Map. (See Section 178.060 (B)(5)).
(B) The Planning Director is responsible for review  and approval of all landuse permit
applications submitted for development and uses described in this section.  The
Planning Director shall determine that such development and uses meet the following
requirements:
(1) The necessary permits for the proposed developm ent have been obtained from
those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval
is required.
(2) The proposed development will not adversely aff ect the flood carrying capacity
of the floodplain.  For purposes of this ordinance "adversely affect" means that
the cumulative effects of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any point.
(3) Development in the floodway requires compliance  with the following
provisions:
(a) Certification by a registered professional engi neer or architect
demonstrating that encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development unless certification by
a registered professional civil engineer is provided demonstrating
through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice that encroachments shall not result in any
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
(b) If the above section is satisfied, all new cons truction and substantial
improvements as identified in Section 178.060 (A) shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of Section 178.070.
(4) Non-structural development within any floodplai n identified on the Polk
County Flood Insurance Rate Map.  Non-structural development includes
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or
storage of equipment or materials.  Approval of the landuse permit shall be
based on the following provisions:
(a) Such development shall be consistent with the n eed to minimize flood
damage;
(b) Such development shall have adequate drainage p rovided to reduce
exposure to flood damage; and,
(c) The cumulative effect of any proposed developme nt, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any
point.
(d) If located in the floodway, non-structural deve lopment shall meet the
requirements of 178.060 (B)(3).
(5) Alteration of a watercourse which is identified  as a floodplain as shown on the
Polk County Flood Insurance Rate Map requires a landuse permit.  Prior to
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-8
approving a landuse permit for the alteration of a watercourse, the Planning
Director shall:
(a) Notify adjacent communities, adjoining property  owners, and the
Department of Land Conservation and Development prior to any
alternation or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration.
(b) Require that maintenance is provided within the  altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
(C) Notice upon an application for a landuse permit  under Section 178.060 shall be
provided as required by Chapter 111.
(D) Notice of the decision of the Planning Director  shall be given as provided in Section
111.270.
(E) Decisions of the Planning Director on landuse a pplications under Section 178.060
shall be subject to the appeal provisions in Section 111.280 and the call of the Board
of Commissioners as provided in Section 111.290.
178.070.  PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION .
(A)  GENERAL STANDARDS.
In all floodplains the following standards are required:
(1) Anchoring.  All new construction and substantia l improvements shall be
anchored to prevent floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
(a) All manufactured homes must likewise be anchore d to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement, and shall be installed using methods and
practices that minimize flood damage.  Anchoring methods may include,
but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors
(reference FEMA's "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard
Areas" guidebook for additional techniques).
(2) Construction materials and methods.
(a) All new construction and substantial improvemen ts shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
(b) All new construction and substantial improvemen ts shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
(c) Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and  air-conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise
elevated or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
(3) Utilities.
(a) All new and replacement water supply systems sh all be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(b) All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems  shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
(c) On-site waste disposal systems shall be located  to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.  As used in this
subsection the term "contamination" has the meaning given to it in the
administrative rules for on-site waste disposal systems adopted by the
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-9
Oregon Environmental Quality Commission and Department of
Environmental Quality.
(4) Subdivision Proposals and other Proposed Develo pment.
(a) Shall be consistent with the need to minimize f lood damage;
(b) Shall have public utilities and facilities such  as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
(c) Shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce  exposure to flood
damage; and,
(d) Where base flood elevation data has not been pr ovided or is not available
from another authoritative source, it shall be generated for other
proposed development which contain at least 50 lots or 5 acres
(whichever is less).
(5) Elevation Certificates.  For all structural dev elopment within floodplains where
no base flood elevation has been established (zone A), the Building Official
shall complete a National Flood Insurance Program Elevation Certificate as
part of the final inspection for all structures pursuant to Section 178.050 (B).
The Building Official will verify the height differential between the lowest
floor of each structure and the existing grade at the building site prior to the
start of construction.  Failure to elevate the lowest habitable floor at least two
feet above grade in these zones may result in higher flood insurance rates.
(6) Crawlspace Construction.  When crawlspaces are constructed in a flood hazard
area, at-grade crawlspaces are the preferred method of construction.  Below-
grade crawlspaces are allowed, and not considered a basement, if all of the
following standards are satisfied as found in Technical Bulletin 11-01,
Crawlspace Construction for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard
Areas :
(a) The building must be designed and adequately an chored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Hydrostatic loads and the effects of buoyancy can usually be addressed
through the required openings stated in Section (b) below.  Because of
hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed in areas
with flood velocities greater than five (5) feet per second unless the
design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a
registered architect or professional engineer.  Other types of foundations
are recommended for these areas.
(b) The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the ba se flood elevation (BFE)
and, as such, must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by
allowing the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.  The bottom of
each flood vent opening can be no more than one (1) foot above the
lowest adjacent exterior grade.
(c) Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage.  This includes not only the
foundation walls of the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also
any joists, insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE.  The
recommended construction practice is to elevate the bottom of joists and
all insulation above BFE.
(d) Any building utility systems within the crawlsp ace must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate
within the system components during flood conditions.  Ductwork, in
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-10
particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed from
floodwaters.
(e) The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BF E must not be more than
two (2) feet below the lowest adjacent exterior grade.
(f) The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measu red from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall
must not exceed four (4) feet at any point.  The height limitation is the
maximum allowable unsupported wall height according to the
engineering analyses and building code requirements for flood hazard
areas.
(g) There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace.  The enclosed area should be
drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.  The type of
drainage system will vary because of the site gradient and other drainage
characteristics, such as soil types.  Possible options include natural
drainage through porous, well-drained soils and drainage systems such
as perforated pipes, drainage tiles or gravel or crushed stone drainage by
gravity or mechanical means.
(h) The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five (5) feet per
second for any crawlspace.  For velocities in excess of five (5) feet per
second, other foundation types should be used.
 Note:  Structures that have below-grade crawlspace s may have higher flood
insurance premiums than structures that have the preferred crawlspace
construction with the interior elevation at or above the lowest adjacent grade,
even when the crawlspace meets the requirements of this section and FEMA
Bulletin 11-01.  If a below-grade crawlspace does not meet the requirements of
this section and FEMA Bulletin 11-01, the structure may be rated as having a
basement and would result in higher insurance premiums.
(B) DWELLINGS AND MANUFACTURED HOMES.
In all floodplains where base flood elevation data has been established (zones AE and AH)
new construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure, location of a
manufactured home on a lot or in a manufactured home park or park expansion approved
after the date of this ordinance shall comply with the following requirements:
(1) New construction and substantial improvement of  any residential structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated one (1) foot above the
base flood elevation.
(2) Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accorda nce with subsection 178.070
(A)(1)(a).
(3) Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor tha t are subject to flooding are
prohibited, or shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
(a) A minimum of two openings having a total net ar ea of not less than one
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
(b) The bottom of all openings shall be no higher t han one foot above grade.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-11
(c) Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,  or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
(4) All manufactured homes to be placed or substant ially improved within zones
where the base flood elevation has been determined (AE and AH) shall be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is one foot above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with the
provisions of 178.070 (A)(1)(a).
(5) Crawlspace Construction.  At-grade crawlspaces are the preferred method of
construction within flood hazard areas.  However, below-grade crawlspaces are
allowed subject to the standards found in Section 178.070 (A)(6).
(C) Nonresidential Construction.
New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other
nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement elevated one
foot above the base flood elevation in zones AH and AE; or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, shall:
(1) Be floodproofed so that below the base flood le vel the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
(2) Have structural components capable of resisting  hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy; and
(3) A registered professional engineer or architect  shall complete a National Flood
Insurance Program Floodproofing Certificate showing that the design and
methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
for meeting provisions of this subsection based on their development and/or
review of the structural design, specifications and plans.  In zones AH and AE,
this certificate shall include the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which structures are floodproofed.  Such certifications shall be
provided to the Building Official as set forth in Section 178.050 (B).
(4) Applicants floodproofing nonresidential buildin gs shall be notified that flood
insurance premiums will be based on rates that are one foot below the
floodproofed level (e.g. a building constructed to the base flood level will be
rated as one foot below that level).
(5) Crawlspace Construction.  At-grade crawlspaces are the preferred method of
construction within flood hazard areas.  However, below-grade crawlspaces are
allowed subject to the standards found in Section 178.070 (A)(6).
(D) Accessory Structures.  Detached accessory struc tures such as sheds, small garages,
garden buildings, etc., may be allowed within floodplains subject to approval of a
development permit (or a landuse permit if located in a floodway).  The criteria in
Section 178.050 or Section 178.060 shall be used in considering approval of the
permit.  In addition, all the following standards must be met.  Accessory structures:
(1) shall not be used for human habitation;
(2) shall be designed to have low flood damage pote ntial;
(3) shall be constructed and placed on a building s ite so as to offer minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
(4) shall be less that 300 square feet or $3000 ass essed value; and
(5) shall meet the general standards for anchoring,  construction materials and
methods, and utilities as set forth in Section 178.070 (A).
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-12
(E) Recreational Vehicles.  Recreational vehicles p laced on sites within the floodplain
must either:
(1) be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive d ays,
(2) be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or  meet the requirements for a
manufactured home.
A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions.
178.080.  VARIANCE PROCEDURE.   A variance may be granted for non-residential
construction in very limited circumstances to allow a lesser degree of floodproofing than the
requirements of Sections 178.070 (C).  The general standards required in Section 178.070 (A)
may not be waived.  Consideration of a variance shall be in accordance with variance standards
described in the current edition of the adopted Oregon Structural Specialty Code.  The Building
Official may permit and authorize a variance after considering if all of the following criteria are
met:
(A) CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
(1) Variances shall not be issued within designated  floodways;
(2) Variances shall only be issued for non-habitabl e structures;
(3) Variances shall only be issued upon determinati on that the variance is the
minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief;
(4) There are unnecessary, unreasonable hardship or  practical difficulties, other
than economic, which can be relieved only by modifying the literal
requirements of the ordinance;
(5) There are no other locations where the structur e could be located on the
property which are not in the floodplain; and
(6) Granting the variance will not result in increa sed flood heights, additional
threats to public health or safety, extraordinary public expense, or create
nuisances to the public.
(B) NOTIFICATION TO APPLICANT. The County shall not ify the applicant in writing
over the signature of the Building Official that issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood elevation will result in increased flood insurance rates,
and increased risks to life and property.
(C) RECORD-KEEPING.  The County shall report all fl oodplain variances to FEMA,
and maintain a record of all variance actions, including justification for granting a
variance and the notification to applicant required in (B) above.
(D) HISTORIC LANDMARKS.  A variance may be granted without regard for the
requirements set forth in this section for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or State
Inventory of Historic Places.
(E) LIMITING VARIANCES.  The Building Official may impose such limitations,
conditions and safeguards as are deemed appropriate so that the intent of this
ordinance will be met, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice be
done.  If the variance is granted the applicant shall exercise the rights granted in
accordance with the terms and subject to all the conditions and limitations of the
approval by the Building Official.  A violation of any such condition or limitation
shall constitute a violation of this ordinance.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\05-05-10 to current\CHAPTER 178.doc                 178-13
(F) VARIANCE RIGHT MUST BE EXERCISED TO BE EFFECTIV E.  Variance
granted under this ordinance shall be effective only when the exercise of the right
granted thereunder shall be commenced within one year after the effective date of
that variance, unless a longer period be specified or thereafter allowed by the
Building Official.  In case such right has not been exercised, or extension obtained,
the variance shall be void.  A written request for an extension of time filed with the
director at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the application shall extend the
running of the one year period until the Building Official has acted on said request.
178.090.  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER.  The degree of flood protection required by this
Ordinance is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering consideration.  Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.  Flood heights
may be increased by manmade or natural causes.  This Ordinance does not imply that lands
outside floodplains or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages.  This Ordinance shall not create a liability on the part of Polk County, any officer, or
employee thereof or the Federal Insurance Administration, for any flood damages that might
result from reliance on this Ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
178.100.  MAP REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS.   FEMA has developed a map revision
process under which the county or a private party may request that a map be revised through the
issuance of a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR).  A LOMR may be issued for revisions that
decrease the size of the floodplain including floodways.  LOMRs may also be issued to remove
from floodplains individual structures or parcels elevated by the placement of fill or to remove
from regulatory floodways structures or parcels inadvertently included in such floodways.
LOMRs cannot be used to increase the size of floodplains including floodways.
All LOMR requests must be submitted to the Planning Director for forwarding to FEMA.  The
Planning Director shall review the request and shall indicate to FEMA whether the request is
supported by Polk County.  Additional supporting materials must be submitted by the party
requesting the LOMR.  Information regarding the types of additional data required is available
from the Polk County Community Development Department.  LOMR requests which would
result in a change to floodplain boundaries, but not floodway boundaries, and LOMR requests
which would remove from floodplains individual structures or parcels elevated by the placement
of fill, shall constitute the initiation of a zone change proceeding as described in Section 178.020.
Individual property owners or lessees may also request from FEMA a determination as to
whether one or more structures on one or more lots or parcels are located within floodplain
boundaries.  If necessary, FEMA will issue a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) for structure(s)
and/or lot(s) or parcel(s) found to be outside of floodplains.  This process is applicable only to
requests for determinations based on topographic conditions that existed on the effective date of
the Polk County FIRM that shows the structure or parcel of land to be within a floodplain.  All
other requests for determinations shall be submitted as LOMRs.  More information regarding
floodplain determinations is available from the Polk County Community Development
Department.