53-1
 CHAPTER 53     2011
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT

 53.100  PURPOSE.
This ordinance is adopted pursuant to the authority  of ORS Chapter 203, 368,  810, and
819 for the purpose of promoting the safety of the persons and their property using roads under
the jurisdiction of Polk County. [Amended Ord. 09-05.]

 53.200  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE.

 (1) A police officer who has probable cause to bel ieve that a person, at or just prior to
the time that the police officer stops the person, was:

 (a)  Driving an uninsured vehicle in violation of ORS 806.010, may without
prior notice, order the vehicle impounded until a p erson with right to
possession of the vehicle complies with the conditi ons for the release or
the vehicle is ordered released by a Hearings Officer.

 (2) In addition to the grounds stated in section ( 1)(a) above, an officer may without
prior notice, order a vehicle impounded (subject to  release as ordered by a Hearings Officer) if
the vehicle is found disabled, abandoned, parked or  left standing unattended so as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to motor vehicle traffic using the public roadway.  [Enacted Ord. 09-05.]

 53.205  NOTICE.

 Notice that the vehicle has been impounded shall b e given to the same parties in the same
manner and within the same time limits as provided in ORS 819.180 for notice after removal of a
vehicle.

 53.210  RELEASE AND DISPOSAL.

  (1) A vehicle impounded under 53.200 of this ordi nance shall be released to a person
entitled to lawful possession upon proof that a per son with a valid driving privilege will be
operating the vehicle, proof of compliance with fin ancial responsibility requirements for the
vehicle, payment to the police agency for a fee of $75, and payment of any towing and storage
charges. Proof shall be presented to the impounding  police agency, which shall authorize the
person storing the vehicle to release it upon payment of the charges.  [Amended Ord. 11-06]

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section , a person who holds a security
interest in the impounded vehicle may obtain releas e of the vehicle by paying the fees as
provided in subsection (1).

 (3) If a person entitled to lawful possession does  not redeem the impounded vehicle
within thirty (30) days after the vehicle is impoun ded or after the Hearings Officer’s written
determination, whichever is later, then such vehicl e shall be disposed of in accordance with the
procedure set forth pursuant to ORS 819.210 through 819.260.

53-2

 53.300  HEARING REQUEST.

 A person entitled to lawful possession of an impou nded vehicle may request a hearing
before the Polk County Hearings Officer to contest the validity of the impoundment. A request
must be made within five calendar days of the impou ndment. The request shall be made to a
person designated by the impounding police agency to receive such requests.

 53.305  HEARING PROCEDURES.

 When a timely request for a hearing is made, a hea ring shall be held before the Polk
County Hearings Officer or a designee appointed by the Sheriff. The hearing shall be set for four
calendar days after the request is received excludi ng Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, but may
be postponed at the request of the person asking fo r the hearing. The Hearings Officer shall
render a written determination. The Hearings Office r shall provide a copy of the written
determination to the person requesting the hearing.

 53.310  BURDEN OF PROOF.

    (1) The impounding police agency shall have the  burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that there was a prob able cause to believe that at or just prior to
the time the police officer stopped the person, the  person committed an offense as described in
53.200, and/or that the vehicle was a hazard or obs truction to motor vehicle traffic.  [Amended
by Ord. 09-05.]

 (2) The police officer that ordered the vehicle im pounded may submit an affidavit or
official report to the Hearings Officer
 in lieu of making a personal appearance at the hearing.

 53.400  PROPER IMPOUNDMENT.

 If the Hearings Officer finds that the impoundment  of the vehicle was proper, the
Hearings Officer shall enter an order supporting th e removal and shall find that the owner or
person entitled to possession of the vehicle is lia ble for usual customary towing and storage
costs. The Hearings Officer may also find the owner  or person entitled to the possession of the
vehicle liable for the costs of the hearing. The decision of the Hearings Officer is a final decision.

 53.405  IMPROPER IMPOUNDMENT.

 If the Hearings Officer finds that the impoundment  of the vehicle was improper, the
Hearings Officer shall order the vehicle released t o the person entitled to the possession of the
vehicle and shall enter a finding that the owner or  person entitled to possession of the vehicle is
not liable for any towing or storage costs resulting from the impoundment. If there is a lien on the
vehicle for towing and storage costs, the Hearings Officer shall order it paid by the impounding
police agency. The decision of the Hearings Officer is a final decision.

53-3

 53.410  WAIVER OF FEE.

 If a person entitled to lawful possession of a veh icle impounded under 53.200 sufficiently
establishes for the impounding police agency that t he vehicle was being operated without the
consent of the person entitled to lawful possession  at the time that the vehicle was impounded,
the impounding police agency may waive the fee of $ 75 under 53.210. For purposes of this
section, proof that a person entitled to lawful pos session of the vehicle reported the vehicle as
stolen to a police agency prior to the impoundment of the vehicle shall be strong evidence that
the vehicle was being operated without the consent of the person. [Enacted Ord.98-9; amended
by Ord. 08-05, Ord. 09-05 and Ord. 11-06]