65-1
 CHAPTER 65     2021

 AMBULANCE SERVICE

 65.010  SHORT TITLE / AUTHORITY.

 (1) This chapter may be cited as the Polk County Ambulance Service Ordinance.

 (2) This chapter is enacted pursuant to ORS 203.035 and 682.031. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 1]

 65.010  POLICY / PURPOSE.

 The Board of Commissioners finds and declares:

 (1) ORS 682.062 requires Polk County to develop a plan for the County relating to the
need for and coordination of ambulance services, and to establish Ambulance Service Area s
consistent with the plan to provide efficient and effective ambulance services.

 (2) This chapter, which establishes Ambulance Service Areas, the methods for selecting
ambulance providers for each service area, and members of the Polk County Ambulance S ervice
Area Advisory Committee, together with Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein by
this reference, make up the Polk County Ambulance Service Area Plan. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 2]

 65.030  DEFINITIONS.

 The words and phrases in this chapter have the meaning provided in ORS Chapter 682 and
OAR Chapter 333, Division 260, unless specifically defined to have a different meaning. [Ord. 92-
44, Sec. 3]

 65.040  EXEMPTIONS.

 This chapter does not apply to:

 (1) Ambulances owned by or operated under the control of the United States
Government.

 (2) Vehicles being used to render temporary assistance in the case of a major
catastrophe or emergency with which the ambulance service of the surrounding locality is unable to
cope, or when directed to be  used to render temporary assistance by an official at the scene of an
accident.

 (3) Vehicles operated solely on private property or within the confines of institutional
grounds, whether or not the incidental crossing of any public street, road, or highw ay through the
property or grounds is involved.

 (4) Vehicles operated solely for the transportation of lumber industry employees.

 (5) Ambulances or vehicles transporting patients from outside the County to a health
care facility within the County, or which are passing through without a destination in the County.
[Ord. 92-44, Sec. 4]

 65-2

 65.050  AMBULANCE SERVICE AREAS.

 For the efficient and effective provision of ambulance services in accordance with the Polk
County Ambulance Service Area Plan, the ambulance service areas shown on Exhibit "A,” attached
hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, are adopted as the Ambulance Service Areas for
Polk County. The Board of Commissioners, by resolution or order, may adjust the boundaries of the
Ambulance Service Areas from time to time as necessary to provide efficient and effective
ambulance services. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 5]

 65.060  ASSIGNMENT OF AREAS.

 (1) No person shall provide ambulance services in Polk County unless an Ambulance
Service Area has been assigned to that person pursuant to this section.

 (2) The existing ambulance service providers as named in Exhibit "A" who have been
previously licensed as an ambulance service provider by the Oregon Health Authority, and currently
providing service in Polk County, shall be assigned to the areas as shown and described in Exhibit
"A."

 (3) If a person assigned an Ambulance Service Area discontinues service before the
expiration of the assignment, the Board of Commissioners shall set a time for applica tions to be
accepted, as prescribed in Exhibit "A" Ambulance Service Area Plan. The review of the application
and assignment of the Ambulance Service Area shall be in accordance with Exhibit "A" and the
assignment shall be for the remainder of the term unless otherwise specified by resolution or order
of the Board of Commissioners.

 (4) Not less than 15 days before any date when the applications for the assignment of an
Ambulance Service Area are due, notice of such application shall be posted in three public places
and published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in Polk County. [Ord. 92-44, Sec.
6]

 65.070  DUTIES OF PROVIDER.

 Upon assignment of an Ambulance Service Area to a person in accordance with Section
65.060, the person providing ambulance service:

 (1) Shall conduct its operations in strict compliance with all applicable State and
Federal laws and regulations, the terms of this chapter, and the Polk County Ambulance Service
Area Plan.

 (2) Shall not fail or refuse to respond to an emergency call for service if an ambulance
is available for service.

 (3) Shall not respond to a medical emergency located outside its assigned Ambulance
Service Area except:

  (a) When a request for a specific ambulance service provider is made by the
person calling for the ambulance and the call does not dictate an emergency
response;

 65-3

  (b) When the response is for supplemental assistance or mutual aid and is
requested by the other provider or 9-1-1 dispatch to respond.

 (4) Shall not transfer the assignment of an Ambulance Service Area without the written
consent of the Board of Commissioners as provided in Exhibit "A.” [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 7]

 65.080  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF ASSIGNMENT.

 (1) Upon a recommendation by the Polk County Ambulance Service Area Advisory
Committee, or upon its own motion, the Board of Commissioners may suspend or revoke the
assignment of an Ambulance Service Area upon finding that the holder thereof has:

  (a) Willfully violated provisions of this chapter, the  Polk County Ambulance
Service Area Plan, or provisions of State or Federal laws and regulations; or

  (b) Materially misrepresented facts or information given in the application
assignment of an Ambulance Service Area or as part of the review of the
performance of the service furnished by the provider.

 (2) In lieu of the suspension or revocation of the assignment of Ambulance Service
Area, the Board may order that the violation be corrected and make the suspension or revocation
contingent upon compliance with the order within the period of time stated therein. Notice of the
Board action shall be provided to the holder of the assignment, specifying the violation, the action
necessary to correct the violation, and the date by which the action must be taken. If the holder of
the assignment fails to take corrective action within the time required, the Board shall notify the
holder that the assignment is suspended or revoked upon receipt of the notice. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 8]

 65.090  APPEALS.

 (1) A person rec eiving a notice of the assignment, denial, suspension, revocation, or
contingent suspension or revocation of an Ambulance Service Area may request a hearing before
the Board of Commissioners by filing with the Board a written request for hearing within 14 days
after the decision, setting forth the reasons for the hearing and the issues proposed to be reviewed.

 (2) The filing of a hearing request shall stay the action pending the hearing and final
determination by the Board of Commissioners, unless the Boa rd makes a written finding that
prompt implementation of the decision is required due to an immediate hazard to the public safety.
The Board of Commissioners shall set a time and place for a hearing, which shall be on the record
or as determined by the Board. Within 14 days after the conclusions of the hearing, the Board shall
affirm, reverse, or modify its original decision. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 9]

 65.100  AMBULANCE SERVICE AREA ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

 (1) There is created a Polk County Ambulance Service Area Advisory Committee. The
members shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners for two-year terms. The Board shall
designate a Chair to serve at its pleasure. The Committee shall meet quarterly or when called upon
by the Board or its Chairperson. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum and motions

 65-4
shall be passed by majority of those attending.

 (2) The Committee shall consist of a maximum of 14 members:

• Polk County Administrative Officer or designee.
• The 9-1-1 Coordinator.
• Medical Director
• Eight (8) fire department/ambulance representatives
• One public members unaffiliated with any service providers under the ASA
plan.
• One representative from the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde.
•  Emergency Management Director/Manager (This position will be
designated as the Chair of the committee and shall be a non-voting position).

If for any reason the committee does not receive enough qualified applications to serve on the
committee, the number constituting a quorum shall be modified to correspond to the appropriate
committee size.

 (3) The Committee shall:

  (a) Review and make recommendation to the Board of Commissioners
regarding all applicants for assignment of Ambulance Service Areas.

  (b) Provide for on-going input to the County from pre-hospital care consumers,
providers, and the medical community.

  (c) Periodically review the performance of ambulance service providers within
Polk County. This review may utilize dispatch records, and any other data or
metrics the Committee feels is pertinent.

  (d) At least once every two years, review the Polk County Ambulance Service
Area Plan and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners
including, but not limited to:

   (i) Review standards established in the plan and make
recommendations regarding improvement and/or new standards as
required by OAR 333-260-0050 (1-3);

   (ii) Monitor coordination between emergency medical service resources;

   (iii) Review dispatch procedures and compliance; and

   (iv) Review the effectiveness and efficiency of the Ambulance Service
Area boundaries. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 10]

 65.110  INITIAL RESPONDER.

 (1) Nothing in this chapter prohibits a 9- 1-1 agency responsible for the dispatching of

 65-5
emergency services from dispatching an initial responder to the ambulance service provider. Such
initial response shall only be in accordance with this section.

 (2) The initial responder shall be a municipal corporation or a special district within
Polk County that provides emergency services within its jurisdiction and requests to be dispatched
to medical emergencies.

 (3) The initial responder shall respond with Emergency Medical Technicians and/or
First Responders that are licensed and/or certified by the State of Oregon and who are employed by
or volunteer with the initial responder.

 (4) Upon the arrival of the ambulance service provider at the location of the medical
emergency, the ambulance service provider shall be in charge of, and responsible for, the
continuation of emergency medical services. The initial responde r shall continue to provide
emergency medical services at the direction of the ambulance service provider. [Ord. 92 -44, Sec.
11]

 65.120  PENALTIES.

 (1) Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a violation.
Failure from day to day to comply with the terms of this chapter constitutes a separate offense for
each such day. Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter constitutes a separate offense
for each such provision.

 (2) Violation of this chapter is punishabl e as provided in ORS 203.065. [Ord. 92- 44,
Sec. 12]

 65.130  NUISANCE.

 In addition to penalties provided by Section 65.120, violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is declared to be a nuisance. This chapter shall be enforceable by the Health Division of
the State of Oregon Department of Human Resources, in a proceeding in Circuit Court for equitable
relief. [Ord. 92-44, Sec. 13]