Polk County Public Records Management and Disclosure Policy

1. General Policy
a. All Polk County public officials have the legal responsibility to manage and protect public
records and, except as exempted from disclosure, to furnish reasonable opportunities for
inspection and examination public records by any person.
b. A public record contains information relating to the conduct of the County’s business and
prepared, owned used or retained by a public body, regardless of the physical form or
characteristics, including:
i. Any writing, meaning any handwriting, typewriting, printing or photography.
ii. Every means of recoding, including letters, words, pictures, sounds or symbols,
combination thereof.
iii. All documents, books, papers, maps, files facsimiles, sound recording.
iv. Electronic records include all files, photographs, videos and other recordings
maintained in an electronic format.
c. Public records do not include extra copies of a document, a stock of publications, messages
on voice mail or on other telephone message storage and retrieval systems.
d. The County Counsel is the public records officer for Polk County.
e. County Counsel shall give advice or assistance to County Departments on records and
information matters as needed.
f. Legal Custody of department records stored at the County’s Archives remains with the
document’s responsible department.
2. Submitting Requests
a. All records requests should be directed to the Polk County Department or Office the
individual believes possesses the records.  A list of Polk County Departments and Offices
with contact information is located at www.co.polk.or.us.
i. In the event a requestor is unsure which department may have the requested
record, the request can be sent to the Polk County Counsel.
b. All records requests should be in writing to avoid confusion of what specifically is being
requested.  In the event the requestor is unclear what specifically they are looking for, it is
recommended the requestor contact the Department or Office phone or email to get
clarification.
c. Within five business days from receiving a written request for records, the Department or
Office shall acknowledge the receipt of the request.  The acknowledgment must:
i. Confirm that the Department or Office is or is not the custodian of the requested
records. or
ii. Notify the requestor that the County is unsure whether it is the custodian of the
requested record,
3. Fees for Records Requests
a. The County shall establish fees reasonably calculated to reimburse the public body for the
public body’s actual cost of making public records available, including costs for summarizing,
compiling or tailoring the public records, either in organization or media, to meet the
request.
b. The calculation of the fees to respond to a records request will either be established by the
County’s adopted fees schedule, or in the event the matter is not covered by the fee
schedule then based upon an estimate of staff time required to complete the request at the
hourly rate for the employee, plus the cost of any media for the request (paper copies, disc,
thumbdrive, etc...)
c. In the event the fees are greater than $25.00, the County shall confirm with the requestor
whether they wish to proceed prior to gathering requested records.
d. Requested records will be provided upon payment of applicable fees.  When a quote for
fees has been provided to a requestor, all applicable timelines under the law and this policy
shall be tolled until the fees are paid.
e. Requests for waivers of the fees shall be processed pursuant to ORS 192.324.
4. Responding to Records Requests
a. The County will attempt to respond to requests within ten (10) days of the acknowledgment
under Section 2(c).  The response will conform to the requirements of ORS 192.329(2), by
some combination of providing the records or asserting an exemption to public release.
b. In the event an exemption is claimed it will be cited by the denial and the requestor has the
option to appeal the application of that exemption to the District Attorney pursuant to ORS
192.415.
5. Miscellaneous
a. Beyond the specifics within this policy, the County shall adhere to the requirements of ORS
192.311 et seq regarding records requests and all other laws related to the inspection and
dissemination of public records.