50-1

 CHAPTER 50 1999

 ENFORCEMENT OF COUNTY ORDINANCES

 (General Provisions)

 50.005  PURPOSE.

 The purpose of this chapter is to ensure tim ely enforcement of Polk County ordinances and
maintain public confidence and certainty in the effectiveness of these ordinances.

 50.010  DEFINITIONS.

 As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:

 (1) "County ordinance" or "ordinance" m eans any ordinance adopted by Polk County,
including but not limited to one dealing with z oning, planning, nuisance abatement, health, solid
waste, public works, building and electrical standards. [Ord. 94-4, Sec. 11]

 (2) "Infraction complaint" means a document which, when properly served upon an
alleged ordinance violator, brings the matter before the appropriate court for resolution.

 (3) "Person" includes the United States or ag encies thereof, any state, public or private
corporation, local governmental unit, public agency, individual, partnership, association, firm, trust,
estate or any other legal entity, contractor, subcontractor, or combination thereof. For the purposes of
this chapter, "person" also includes those re siding or conducting business or activities in the
incorporated or unincorporated areas of Polk County.

 (4) "Enforcement officer" means a person a ppointed to serve infraction complaints
pursuant to Section 50.020, by Board order, or to initiate proceedings for nuisance abatement under
Chapter 43.

 (5) "Violator" means a person who has been  accused of a violation of a Polk County
ordinance or a person who has admitted or been adjudicated to have violated a Polk County
ordinance.

 50.015  JURISDICTION OF COURTS.

 The Circuit Court has jurisdiction of all proceedings for violation of a Polk County
ordinance under this chapter.

 50.020  ATTORNEY FOR POLK COUNTY.

 The Polk County Board of Commissioners elect s to have the prosecution of infraction
complaints and enforcement of any other remedy provided by law or ordinance to be conducted by
the Office of Polk County Legal Counsel. This does not prevent participation by the Polk County
District Attorney in cases deemed appropriate by the Board and District Attorney.

 50-2

 50.025  ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.

 The Board of Commissioners shall appoint one or more persons to act as enforcement
officer(s) for the purposes of this chapter. The appointments shall be by order of the Board.

 50.030  SEVERABILITY.

 If any part of this chapter is  declared invalid, such declaration does not affect the validity of
any other part.

 50.035  AMENDMENT OF OTHER COUNTY ORDINANCES.

 It is not the intent of this chapter to re peal any penalty provision in existing Polk County
ordinances. It is the intent of this chapter:

 (1) To provide alternative penalties and procedures for enforcement of the penalty
provisions already contained in existing Polk County ordinances.

 (2) To apply to all penalty provisions of a ll existing Polk County ordinances. All penalty
provisions of all other existing Polk County ordina nces are considered to include this chapter by
reference.

 (Infraction Complaints)

 50.105  REMEDIES.

 (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, an infraction complaint
may be used for violation of any Polk County ordinance.

 (2) Infraction complaints may be filed against the same person for repeated violations of
the same ordinance or for a continuing violation of the same ordinance.

 (3) Each 24-hour period constitutes a separate occurrence.

 (4) Polk County at any time, whether before  or after the issuance of one or more
infraction complaints, may file a complaint in the Circuit Court for Polk County for any other
remedy provided by law including injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate
proceedings to prevent, temporarily or permanently, enjoin, or abate the violation.

 (5) In addition to any other remedy provide d by law, Polk County may seek a fine of
$500 for each separate violation and a fine of up to $10,000 for a continuing violation of any Polk
County ordinance, pursuant to this chapter.

 50.110  CONTENTS.

 (1) An infraction complaint shall consist of a citation, enforcement officer report, and
summons.

 50-3
 (2) The infraction complaint shall contain a form in which the Enforcement Officer shall
record that he or she has reasonable grounds to believe, and does believe, the person served with the
infraction complaint violated a Polk County ordinance, contrary to law. A certificate conforming to
this section and signed by the Enforcement Officer is equivalent to a sworn complaint.

 (3) The infraction complaint shall also contain the following:

  (a) The name of the court, the name of  Polk County, in whose name the action is
brought, and the name of the violator.

  (b) A statement or designation of the a lleged violation of Polk County ordinance
in such a manner as can be readily understood by an ordinary person making
a reasonable effort to do so and th e date, time, and place at which the
violation is alleged to have occurred.

 50.115  SUMMONS.

 A summons in an infraction complaint is sufficient if it contains the following:

 (1) The name of the court, the name of the person cited, the date on which the infraction
complaint was issued, the name of the Enforcement Officer, and the date, time, and place at which
the person cited is to appear in court.

 (2) A notice to the person cited that the infr action complaint will be filed with the court,
based upon the alleged violation of Polk County ordinance.

 (3) The bail for violation of the ordinance:

  (a) For a single occurrence, a minimum of $125 and not to exceed $500.

  (b) For a continuing occurrence, a minimum of $250 and not to exceed $10,000.

 (4) A notice that Polk County may seek any and all other legal remedies, including but
not limited to injunction, mandamus, abatement or  other appropriate proceedings to prevent,
temporarily or permanently, enjoin, or abate the ordinance violation.

 50.118  WARNING.

 At the discretion of the Enforcement Officer, an  official warning may be issued prior to the
issuance of a citation. The warning shall be served as set forth in section 50.120 and shall notify the
violator as to the observed violation(s) and the action necessary to remedy same. The warning shall
set forth a return inspection date at which time if the violation(s) have been remedied the matter will
stand closed. If the violation(s) still exist at the time of the return inspection, the Enforcement
Officer shall issue a citation.

 50.120  SERVICE.

 (1) Service of an infraction complaint shall be made by an enforcement officer upon a
person whose conduct, actions, or omissions are alleged to constitute a Polk County ordinance

 50-4
violation.

 (2) If the person served under this section is  not the owner, title holder, contract buyer,
or contract seller of property material to the alleged violation, but is the person whose action,
conduct, or omission is creating or causing (by act or omission) the ordinance violation, then the
owner, title holder, contract buyer, or contract seller, after 45-days written notice from Polk County,
may also be served personally with an infraction complaint.

 (3) If personal service cannot readily be made, substitute service can be made as
provided in Rule 7, Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure.

 50.125  FILING COPIES.

 The Enforcement Officer issuing an infraction complaint shall cause:

 (1) A copy of the infraction complaint to  be delivered to the Polk County Legal
Counsel's office not later than the third business day after service.

 (2) The infraction complaint to be delivered  to Court Records not later than the fifth
business day after service.

 50.130  MOTION TO SET ASIDE.

 An infraction complaint shall be set aside by the court upon motion of the violator, before a
plea, if the complaint does not conform to the requirements of Sections 50.110 and 50.115. A pre-
trial ruling on a motion to set aside may be app ealed by Polk County. The court may allow Polk
County to amend the complaint or to file an amended complaint.

 50.135  APPEARANCE / HEARING / DEFAULT.

 (1) The violator shall appear in court at the time indicated in the summons, or prior to
such time may:

  (a) Request a hearing.

  (b) Admit violation of the Polk County ordinance and give a statement of matters
in explanation or mitigation of the violation.

  (c) Submit to the court an execute d appearance, waiver of hearing, and
admission of violation as set forth on the summons, together with cash, check
or money order in the amount of the bail set forth on the summons. A
statement in explanation or mitiga tion may also be submitted with the
admission of violation of a Polk County ordinance.

 (2) In any case in which the violator persona lly appears in court at the time indicated in
the summons, and the violator desires to admit the violation of the Polk County ordinance and the
court accepts the admission, the court shall hear any statement in explanation or mitigation that the
violator desires to make.

 50-5

 (3) If the violator does not appear in court at the time indicated in the summons and has
not, prior to such time, submitted an executed a ppearance and waiver of hearing to the court,
together with cash, check, or money order in the amount of the fine set forth in the summons, or
requested in writing a continuance of the time to a ppear in court, the court shall enter a judgment
against the violator in an amount equal to the bail set forth on the face of the summons, together with
court costs and any special costs.

 50.140  EFFECT OF ADMISSION AND STATEMENT BY VIOLATOR.

 If a violator has not requested  a hearing, but has submitted to the court a written statement in
explanation or mitigation of the ordinance violation, the statement constitutes a waiver of hearing
and consent to the entry of judgment against the violator. The court may declare a forfeiture of the
bail or portion thereof on the basis of the statement and any testimony or written statement of the
Enforcement Officer or other person, if any, which may be presented to the court.

 50.145  SCHEDULING HEARING - EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAR.

 (1) If the violator requests a hearing, the c ourt shall fix a date and time for the hearing
and advise the violator of the date.

 (2) If the violator fails to appear at the time set for the hearing without having previously
requested in writing a continuance, the court sha ll enter a judgment against the violator in the
amount of the bail set forth on the summons.

 (3) No warrant of arrest shall be issued for any violation of a Polk County ordinance.

 50.150  CONDUCT OF HEARING.

 (1) The hearing of any infraction complaint shall be by the court without a jury unless
the violator requests a jury consistent with the Oregon Constitution, Article VII, Section 3.

 (2) The hearing of any infraction complaint shall not commence until at least fourteen
days have elapsed after the date of the infraction complaint.

 (3) Polk County has the burden of provi ng the violation of an ordinance by a
preponderance of the evidence.

 (4) The pre-trial discovery rules set forth in the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure apply
to infraction complaints. Polk County may call the violator as a witness at the hearing.

 (5) Proof of negligence, malfeasance, misfeasance, nonfeasance, willful conduct,
knowing conduct, intentional conduct, or any other cu lpable mental state is not an element of an
ordinance violation.

 (6) At any hearing involving an infraction complaint, the violator is entitled to be
represented by counsel, but an attorney shall not be provided at public expense.

 50-6

 50.155  PROSECUTION AS BAR.

 Notwithstanding any provision of the Oregon Rules of Civil Procedure or any other
provision of this chapter, the prosecution of one infraction complaint does not bar the subsequent
prosecution of additional Polk County ordinance violations occurring or committed at the same time
or as part of the same act or transaction or as part of the same occurrence as other ordinance
violations. Evidence of prior ordinance violations  is admissible in subsequent prosecution of an
ordinance violation.

 50.160  CIVIL JUDGMENT.

 A judgment upon an infraction complaint is a civil judgment having the same effect as any
other civil judgment at law. The judgment involves only a fine and does not incur loss by forfeiture,
suspension, or revocation of any license or any other privilege or other civil penalty. A person
against whom a judgment is issued does not suffer any disability or legal disadvantage, based upon
the judgment, other than the enforcement by Polk County of the judgment.

 50.165  APPEAL.

 An appeal from a judgment under Section 50.160 may be taken by either party as provided
in ORS Chapter 19.

 50.170  COURT COSTS.

 (1) The court, in addition to the fine, shall charge court costs to the violator if:

  (a) The violator admits violation of the Polk County ordinance and a fine is
imposed;

  (b) The violator fails to appear for the hearing or is found to have violated a Polk
County ordinance following a hearing; or

  (c) The violator enters into an agreement with Polk County for a consent decree
whereby the violator does not admit violation of the ordinance but agrees to
make necessary corrections, as set forth in the agreement, in order to bring
the violator's conduct, actions, or property into compliance with Polk County
ordinances.

 (2) Court costs shall be $75. The costs cannot be waived by Polk County or the violator
in any proceeding. If the violator fails to pay the costs, the costs shall be entered as a judgment
against the violator in the same manner and with like effect as a judgment for a fine.

 50.175  CONSENT DECREE.

 (1) Polk County and the violator may enter into a consent decree. The consent decree
shall provide that the violator does not admit a violation of a Polk County ordinance but will make
necessary corrections and reimburse Polk County for enforcement costs, as set forth in the

 50-7
agreement, to bring the violator's actions, conduct, omissions, or property into conformance with
appropriate Polk County ordinances.

 (2) The violator, the violator's attorney, if  any, and the Polk County Legal Counsel shall
sign all consent decrees.

 (3) The consent decree shall be filed with  the court as a final adjudication of the
proceedings and, upon signature of the Judge, shall constitute a dismissal of the action when violator
performs as agreed. The violator or Polk County may seek a court order dismissing the case upon
completion of the conditions of the consent decree.

 (4) The violator's failure to comply with the consent decree allows Polk County to seek
any additional remedies provided by law or ordinance.

 50.180  FINES.

 (1) All fines collected shall be deposited w ith the Polk County Treasurer and credited to
the Polk County General Fund.

 (2) Polk County is entitled to recover all special costs and disbursements that are
reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the successful prosecution of an infraction complaint,
including the expenses and salaries of officers, agents, and employees; expenses of witnesses;
expenses of taking depositions; expenses of publication of summons or notices, postage,
compensation of expert witnesses; and the expense of copying any public record, book, or document
used as evidence in the trial.

 (3) The special costs shall be allowed to Polk County in the same manner as a judgment
for fines.

 (Nuisance Abatement)

 50.205  INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.

 (1) An enforcement officer may, and on the bona fide signed complaint of any person or
public body shall, investigate to determine whether a nuisance exists under any Polk County
ordinance. The Enforcement Officer may request the assistance of the Polk County Sheriff for the
purpose of conducting such investigations.

 (2) After investigation, if the Enforcement Officer finds reasonable cause to believe a
nuisance offense in violation of Chapter 43 exists , the officer shall proceed as provided in this
Chapter.

 (3) After investigation, if the Enforcement Officer finds reasonable cause to believe a
nuisance not described in Chapter 43 exists, the officer shall confer with the Polk County Legal
Counsel who in turn may elect to report the results of the investigation to the Board.

 50.210  HEARING.

 (1) Based on its review of the Enforcemen t Officer's report, the Board, by order, may

 50-8
appoint a Hearings Officer to hold a public hearing on the existence of the alleged nuisance. Unless
the order declares the probable existence of a substantial threat to the public peace, health, and safety
requiring immediate action, the hearing shall not be scheduled earlier than the 10th day after
adoption of the order. The Board shall cause written notice of the hearing to be sent by certified mail
to the alleged violator and to the owner of the property where the violation is alleged, if the owner is
another person.

 (2) At the time and place described in the no tice, the Hearings Officer shall hold a public
hearing on the existence of the alleged nuisa nce. Any person or public body requesting an
opportunity shall be heard and may present evidence. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Hearings
Officer shall submit all evidence to the Boar d together with the summary, findings, and
recommendations.

 50.215  BOARD ACTION.

 (1) After reviewing the material submitted by the Hearings Officer, the Board, by order,
on the basis of the record, may dismiss the proceed ing or declare the existence of a nuisance and
direct the Enforcement Officer to abate the nuisance.

 (2) If the Board orders abatement, its orde r must specify with reasonable certainty the
work to be done. The order may authorize County personnel to do the work or contract for it to be
done in accordance with laws, rules, and ordinances governing public contracts. Polk County and its
agents are not liable for trespass to or conversion of any real or personal property necessarily arising
in the course of abating the nuisance.

 (3) Unless otherwise directed by the Board, the Polk County Legal Counsel shall bring a
civil action to recover the costs of abatement under this section from the violator.