F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 115.doc                  115-1
CHAPTER 115
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS
115.010. Purpose
115.020. Definitions
115.030. Procedures for Non-Legislative Plan Amendm ents
115.040. Procedures for Legislative Plan Amendments .
115.050. Criteria for Non-Legislative Plan Amendmen ts
115.060. Criteria for Legislative Plan Amendments
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 115.doc                  115-2
115.010.  PURPOSE.   To provide clear and objective criteria and procedures to receive and
process a request for a comprehensive plan amendment.
115.020.  DEFINITIONS.  A comprehensive plan amendment is any amendment to the Polk
County Comprehensive Plan which deletes, supplements, or changes the text, land use map
designations, or urban growth boundaries.
(A) A non-legislative comprehensive plan amendment is a comprehensive plan
amendment initiated by the affected property owners that includes either: (1) a
change to the land use designation for one or more properties, (2) a text amendment
that demonstrates why the building(s) for a specific commercial use defined by the
Zoning Ordinance as “small-scale, low impact”, within an unincorporated
community, should exceed 4,000 square feet in size; or (3) a text amendment that
demonstrates why the building(s) for a specific industrial use defined by the Zoning
Ordinance as “small-scale, low impact”, within an unincorporated community,
should exceed 10,000 square feet in size;
An amendment to an adopted urban growth boundary which is non-legislative in
nature may be initiated by a property owner(s) who request inclusion in or exclusion
from the urban growth boundary, subject to any applicable comprehensive plan or
intergovernmental agreement pertaining to the urban growth boundary and
urbanizable land.
(B) A legislative comprehensive plan amendment is a ll comprehensive plan amendments
other than non-legislative amendments, initiated by the Board of Commissioners or
the Planning Commission.   A legislative amendment to an adopted urban growth
boundary may be initiated by Polk County or by the affected city as specified by any
applicable comprehensive plan or intergovernmental agreement pertaining to the
urban growth boundary and urbanizable land.
  [Amended be Ordinance #00-03, dated May5, 2000]
115.030.  PROCEDURES FOR NON-LEGISLATIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS.   The
application shall be processed as follows.
(A) Property owners, or persons purchasing property  under contract, if they state in
writing that they are purchasing the property under contract, may file a plan
amendment petition.  The petition shall be in writing on forms provided by the
Planning Director and shall be filed with the Planning Division not less than 45 days
prior to the date of the hearing.  The petition shall contain the following information:
(1) The present comprehensive plan designation;
(2) The proposed comprehensive plan designation;
(3) The street address, or where none exists, the l ocation of the property;
(4) The legal description of the property sought to  be reclassified;
(5) The names, addresses and zip codes of the owner (s) of the property sought to
be reclassified; and
(6) The signatures of the property owners for the a rea to be reclassified.
(B) The Hearings Officer shall hold a public hearin g as prescribed in Chapter 111 on the
complete petition for a plan amendment.  After concluding this hearing, the Hearings
Officer shall prepare a report  setting forth a summary of facts and conditions
involved in the plan amendment and submit the same, together with a
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
(C) The Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plan
amendment as provided in Chapter 111.  Final decision by the Board of
Commissioners shall not be effective until 21 days after mailing of the decision.
Filing of an appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals stays all proceedings by all
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 115.doc                  115-3
parties in connection with the matter appealed until the appeal has been resolved.
Any plan amendment or reclassification of property shall be by ordinance which shall
be passed by the Board of Commissioners.  Any denial of a proposed plan
amendment shall be by order.
115.040.  PROCEDURES FOR LEGISLATIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS.
(A) Legislative amendments may be initiated by the Board of Commissioners or Planning
Commission.  An interested party may request that the Planning Commission or
Board initiate a legislative amendment.  Legislative amendments shall only be
initiated by the Board or Planning Commission after findings are made that the
proposed change is in the public interest and will be of general public benefit.  In the
case of a legislative amendment to an adopted urban growth boundary, the
amendment may be initiated by Polk County or by the affected city as specified in
any applicable comprehensive plan or intergovernmental agreement pertaining to the
urban growth boundary and urbanizable land.
(B) After a legislative amendment has been initiate d, the Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing as prescribed in Chapter 111 on the complete petition for plan
amendment.  After concluding this hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit a
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
(C) The Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plan
amendment as provided in Chapter 111.  Final decision by the Board of
Commissioners shall not be effective until 21 days after mailing of the decision.
Filing of an appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals stays all proceedings by all
parties in connection with the matter appealed until the appeal has been resolved.
Any plan amendment or reclassification of property shall be by ordinance which shall
be passed by the Board of Commissioners.  Any denial of a proposed plan
amendment shall be by order.
115.050.  CRITERIA FOR NON-LEGISLATIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS.   A non-
legislative plan amendment may be approved provided that the request is based on substantive
information providing a factual basis to support the change.  It is the applicant’s responsibility to
provide the information necessary to determine if the request meets the pertinent criteria.
(A) Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan Map must m eet one or more of the
following criteria:
(1) The Comprehensive Plan designation is erroneous  and the proposed
amendment would correct the error; or
(2) The Comprehensive Plan Designation is no longer  appropriate due to changing
conditions in the surrounding area; and
(3) The purpose of the Comprehensive Plan will be c arried out through approval of
the proposed Plan Amendment based on the following:
(a) Evidence that the proposal conforms to the inte nt of relevant goals and
policies in the Comprehensive Plan and the purpose and intent of the
proposed land use designation.
(b) Compliance with Oregon Revised Statutes, statew ide planning goals and
related administrative rules which applies to the particular property(s) or
situations.  If an exception to one or more of the goals is necessary, the
exception criteria in Oregon Administrative Rules, Chapter 660, Division
4 shall apply; and
(c) Compliance with the provisions of any applicabl e intergovernmental
agreement pertaining to urban growth boundaries and urbanizable land.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 115.doc                  115-4
(B) Text amendments to the Comprehensive Plan demon strating why the building(s) for
a specific commercial use defined by the Zoning Ordinance as “small-scale, low
impact”, within an unincorporated community, should exceed 4,000 square feet in
size must demonstrate compliance with the following criteria:
(1) An analysis shows that the proposed use is inte nded to serve a market area
consisting solely of the surrounding rural area and/or the travel needs of people
passing through the area; and
(2) The proposed use would rely upon a work force f rom the surrounding rural
area.
(C) Text amendments to the Comprehensive Plan demon strating why the building(s) for
a specific industrial use defined by the Zoning Ordinance as “small-scale, low
impact”, within an unincorporated community, should exceed 10,000 square feet in
size must demonstrate compliance with the following criteria:
(1) The proposed use is necessary to provide employ ment that does not exceed the
total projected work force within the community and the surrounding rural
area;
(2) The proposed use would not rely upon a work for ce served by uses within an
urban growth boundary; and
(3) The determination of the work force of the comm unity and surrounding rural
area considers the total projected industrial and commercial employment of the
community and is coordinated with employment projections for nearby urban
growth  boundaries.   [Amended by Ordinance #00-03, dated May 5, 2000]
115.060.  CRITERIA FOR LEGISLATIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS.  A legislative plan
amendment may be approved provided that the request is based on substantive information
providing a factual basis to support the change.  In amending the Comprehensive Plan, Polk
County shall demonstrate:
(A) Compliance with Oregon Revised Statutes, and th e statewide planning goals and
related administrative rules.  If an exception to one or more of the goals is necessary,
Polk County shall adopt findings which address the exception criteria in Oregon
Administrative Rules, Chapter 660, Division 4;
(B) Conformance with the Comprehensive Plan goals, policies and intent, and any plan
map amendment criteria in the plan;
(C) That the proposed change is in the public inter est and will be of general public
benefit; and
(D) Compliance with the provisions of any applicabl e intergovernmental agreement
pertaining to urban growth boundaries and urbanizable land.