42-1

 CHAPTER 42 September 2012
 DOGS AND LIVESTOCK

 42.105 AUTHORITY.

 Polk County has been declared a Dog Control Distri ct under ORS 609.010 to 609.190.
[Ord. 87-12]

 42.107  PURPOSE.

 Polk County has determined that responsible dog ow nership and a viable public information
system (to include public information programs and adequate signage) are matters of significant
importance. The Purpose of Chapter 42 is to establish a framework which supplements State law, to
allow for the operation and enforcement of an effective dog control program. [Ord. 00-11]

 42.110  LICENSES AND FEES.

 (1)  Every person owning, keeping, or acquiring a dog which has a set of permanent
canine teeth or becomes six (6) months old, whichever occurs first, shall obtain a license for the dog
and pay the fee prescribed by resolution of the Board.

 (2)  Each dog license shall be issued for a period  of one (1) year, up to (3) three years,
and shall be renewed not later than the expiration date of the current license. However, if the final
day for renewal occurs on a weekend or on a legal h oliday in Oregon under ORS 187.010, the
license may be renewed on the next succeeding busin ess day without penalty, liability, or loss of
other rights. The license shall expire no later tha n the end of the month in which the rabies
vaccination expires as listed on the rabies vaccination certificate. [Ord. 87-12; amended by Ord. 88-
28, Ord. 96-5, Ord. 04-08, and Ord 06- 12]

 (3) Kennel Facilities; Regulation. Chapter 42 does  not regulate kennel facilities [Ord.
06-12].

 42.115  PENALTIES

 (1)  Any person owning or keeping a dog required t o be licensed under Section 42.110
who fails to obtain a license for the dog within th irty (30) days after such license or renewal is
required, or who fails to obtain or renew a license within thirty (30) days after becoming the owner
or keeper of such a dog, and/or establishing reside ncy in Polk County, shall pay either of the
following penalties in addition to a license fee:

  (a) For voluntary licensing:   $10.00

(b) For non-voluntary licensing:   $50.00
plus

(2) For purposes of this section, "Non-Voluntary Li censing" means any licensing that occurs as
a result of impoundment of an unlicensed dog, or issuance of a citation by Polk County or any other
law enforcement agency for failure to obtain or renew a license. [Ord. 87-12; amended by Ord. 88-
28 and Ord. 96-5; amended by Ord. 00-17]

 42-2

(3) Mandatory micro-chipping and registration with Polk County and an approved national
database shall be required under the following circ umstances.
The Dog Board shall from time to
time designate a listing of approved national database organizations.

(a)  Issuance of a citation or summons by Polk County or  any other law
enforcement agency for violation of ORS 609.060 [Dog Running at Large]
and/or ORS 609.095 to ORS 609.098 [Dog as a Public Nuisance—
Potentially Dangerous Dog & Dangerous Dog] and/or O RS 167.320 to
ORS 167.360 [Owners/Keepers cited for Animal Neglec t and Abuse]
and/or Polk County Ordinance Chapter 42 [Wolf-dog H ybrid] and Polk
Count Ordinance Chapter 43 [Maintaining Kennel With out License AKA
Puppy Mill] and the dog(s) is/are not licensed.

(b)  Any dog(s) reported to have chased, menaced, or bit ten person(s) and not
currently licensed.

(c)  Any dog impounded by Polk County or any other law enforcement agency.

(d)  Any dog reported to be in violation of ORS 609.150 and is not currently
licensed. [Ord. 06-12]

 42.117  WHEN LICENSES NOT TO BE ISSUED.

 A license shall not be issued or renewed for any d og if the owner or keeper of the dog
currently is in default of payment of any obligatio ns arising under this chapter, including fees,
penalties, impoundment fees, or appeal deposits. [Ord. 91-11, Sec. 3]

 42.118  ANIMAL SHELTER.

 Polk County is hereby given authority to maintain its own animal shelter or to enter into a
contract with a private contractor for the provisio n of animal shelter services. The County may
delegate to the private contractor who is providing  animal shelter services, the authority to sell,
adopt, or humanely kill animals once the private contractor is no longer required by law or contract
to hold the animal. Such sales or adoptions may be made without the specific approval of each
adoption by the County Board of Commissioners, Hearings Officer or Dog Control Board and may
be made without determination, by either Board or t he Hearings Officer, that the animal is not
dangerous and can be safely kept. [Ord. 93-8, Sec. 1]

 42.120  IMPOUNDMENT COSTS.

 (1)  A person owning or keeping a dog that has bee n impounded by Polk County shall
pay the expenses incurred by Polk County arising out of the impoundment. However, payment shall
be not less than $35 for the dog's first impoundmen t, and not less than $55 for each subsequent
impoundment, with $15 increases for each additional violation.

 (2)  Payments required under Subsection (1) of thi s section shall include the current dog
license fee under Section 42.110, and all penalties under Section 42.115, if not already current, and

 42-3

all impoundment costs including, but not limited to , the costs of apprehension, transportation,
boarding fees, medical costs, and all costs involved in disposition of the dog.

 (3)  Each application for issuance or renewal of a  license shall require the person
applying to agree in writing to pay impoundment cos ts required under this section. [Ord. 87-12;
amended by Ord. 88-18]

 42.122 EXCLUSIONS FROM "RUNNING AT LARGE."

 County officials are not required, but may (based upon the particulars of the situation),
impound dogs found to be “running at large.” For pu rposes of this chapter, a dog is not considered
to be "running at large" if it is under the supervision of a person and is being:

 (1) Used in order to hunt in a legal manner at a l egal time;

 (2)  Used to control or protect livestock;

 (3) Used in other related agricultural activities;  or

 (4) Trained for any activity described in subsecti ons (1) to (3) of this section. [Ord. 05-
01; Ord. 91-11, Sec. 1]

 42.123 LICENSING OF WOLF-DOG HYBRIDS.

 Regulation and licensing of wolf-dog hybrids will fall under the jurisdiction of Polk County
Dog Control. Licensing will apply to wolf-dog hybrids aged six (6) weeks or more, to be renewed
annually. There is no three-year license for wolf h ybrids. Failure to license as a wolf-dog hybrid
will result in confiscation of animal.

 (1)  Confinement.

  (a) Animal shall not become a public safety or pu blic nuisance problem.

  (b) Animal shall not roam free at any time.

  (c) Chaining or tethering is not an acceptable me thod of confinement.

  (d) Enclosure must allow for freedom of postural movements.

  (e) Enclosure must confine animal sufficiently to  not allow escapes.

 (2)  Control Outside of Enclosure.

  (a) Animal must be kept in control on lead of no more than six (6) feet in
length.

 42-4

  (b)  Animal must be in control of responsible adu lt.

  (c)  Animal must not be left unattended or tether ed.

 (3)  Shelter.

  (a) Shelter must protect the animal from the elem ents.

  (b) Shelter must provide clean, dry, draft-free p lace to rest.

  (c) Shelter must prevent any physical discomfort and impairment of health due
to exposure.

 (4)  Food and Water. Food and water must be provid ed sufficient in quantity and quality
to maintain good health of the animal under all weather conditions.

 (5)  Sanitation. Living area of the animal must be  maintained free of a build up of fecal
material, urine-soaked bedding, trash, debris, or any other foreign material.

 (6) Health Care. Licensee must identify veterinary  practice dealing with licensed
animal.

 (7)  General Care. Animal must be maintained to pr event maltreatment, abuse, or
neglect of any sort.

 (8) Identification. Animal must be identified by e lectronic microchip implant. Owner
must provide implant number and certificate of regi stration in an approved national database to
licensing authority, which will register the identification with Polk County. The owner’s check shall
be attached to the application and made out to Polk  County. If the microchip number has already
been registered with an approved national database, the County will verify the information before
the issuance of the license.

 (9)  Rabies Vaccination. Rabies vaccination shall remain at the discretion of the owner
and veterinarian until rabies vaccine becomes label ed by USDA for use in wolf-dog hybrids, at
which time it will become mandatory.

 (10)  Penalty for escape of the licensed animal.

  (a) First Offense - $100 fine in addition to impo undment fees.

  (b) Second Offense - confiscation and euthanasia of the escaped animal.

 (11)  Licensing fees.

  (a)  License will be the same as the annual dog l icense fee.

 42-5

  (b)  Wolf-dog hybrids must be licensed at six (6)  weeks of age. Three-year
licenses do not apply.

 (12)  Bite of Humans. A licensed animal which bite s a human will be dealt with under
rules of the Oregon Health Division Acute and Commu nicable Diseases Program and as
recommended by the Compendium of Animal Rabies Cont rol. Wolf-dog hybrids are currently
classified as a wild animal and treated as such.

 (13)  Period of Responsibility for Licensed Animal .

  (a)  Maintain ownership and control for natural l ifetime of animal, or

  (b) Notify licensing authority of any intended tr ansfer of ownership of licensed
animal so that animal can be re-licensed to new owner, or

  (c)  Dispose of animal by humane euthanasia.

  (d) Animal may not be abandoned or released into the wild.

 (14)  Licensing Agreement. A signed agreement betw een the licensee and licensing
authority must be executed for licensure to be vali d. The agreement form will be provided by
licensing authority. [Ord 97-5; amended Ord 06-12]

 42.124 DOG CONTROL OFFICER - FUNCTION.

 The Dog Control Officer shall be appointed by the Sheriff. The Dog Control Officer shall
be responsible for in-field enforcement of all state and county laws relating to the control of dogs
within Polk County. The Dog Control Officer shall i ssue warnings, citations, and violations as
deemed necessary. No specific form of citation is r equired, instead the Dog Control Officer may
utilize any legal process to initiate enforcement proceedings and, when necessary, to take custody of
dogs. When appropriate, Sheriff’s Office Deputies may be called in to issue criminal process. The
Dog Control Officer shall attend all Dog Board hear ing proceedings and all Hearings Officer
hearing proceedings and prior to same shall prepare  and submit a written staff report which shall
summarize the known facts, list the witnesses, and recommend a course of action. [Ord. 00-11]

 42.125 DOG CONTROL BOARD; MEMBERSHIP; MEETINGS.

 (1)  The Polk County Dog Control Board, authorized  by ORS 609.030 and designated as
the legislative board of supervisors and contested case forum for the district, is composed of five
members appointed by the Board of Commissioners for terms specified in the appointment. At least
two of the members must be connected directly or indirectly with the livestock industry.

 (2)  The Board of Commissioners annually shall sel ect one of the full-time members to
serve as Chair for a term of one (1) year.

 42-6

 (3)  The Dog Control Board shall hold regular publ ic meetings at such times and places
as it considers necessary. Special meetings shall convene on call of the Chair.

 (4)  The Dog Control Board shall hold all necessar y and requested contested case
hearings upon appropriate notice on an “as needed” basis. [Ord. 00-17]

 (5)  Three members of the Dog Control Board consti tute a quorum for doing business,
and any decision of the Board must have the concurrence of at least three (3) members.

 (6)  Members of the Dog Control Board shall receiv e no compensation. [Ord. 87-12;
amended by Ord. 90-3 and 91-5]

 42.130 FUNCTIONS OF DOG CONTROL BOARD; RULES.

 (1)  The Dog Control Board shall annually review C hapter 42 to determine if it is in
compliance with existing state law; shall review pr oposed and/or pending legislation at the state
level; shall determine the need for possible amendments to Chapter 42; shall review in advance all
staff reports concerning dog-related matters; shall conduct all necessary or requested contested case
hearings and shall have jurisdiction (concurrently with the Hearings Officer) over all non-criminal
dog-related violation matters (both PCCO Chapter 42  and ORS Chapter 609); shall have full
authority to impose non-criminal sanctions (consist ent with a Penalty Schedule approved by the
Board of Commissioners and/or applicable state law) pursuant to state, county, and local laws; shall
designate at least one member to attend dog-related appellate matters before the Hearings Officer in
the capacity of an expert advisor to the Hearings Officer; shall review all dog-related contested case
and appellate decisions of the Hearings Officer; shall send an annual written report to the Board of
Commissioners updating the Board of Commissioners on any significant changes in state law and
proposing amendments, if needed, to Chapter 42; sha ll maintain and implement a public
information program; shall be available to conduct voluntary mediation sessions with all parties
involved in dog-related contested case matters; and shall meet as needed with representatives from
the livestock industry, the Humane Society, and County dog control staff on matters related to dog
control. [Ord. 00-11; amended by Ord. 00-17; amended by Ord. 06-12]

 (2)  The Board of Commissioners shall adopt rules to carry out the duties of the Dog
Control Board. [Ord. 87-12 amended by Ord. 90-3]

 42.132  HEARINGS OFFICER - FUNCTION.

 The Polk County Board of Commissioners shall appoi nt a duly qualified Hearings Officer
(and shall, when possible, designate a duly qualifi ed back-up Hearings Officer) to conduct all
necessary or requested de novo appellate hearings and all contested case matters (including failure
to license citations) referred by the Board of Comm issioners, the Dog Board, or the Dog Control
Officer. Before closing any appellate hearing, the Hearings Officer may receive and consider the
recommendation of the Dog Board. The Hearings Officer shall also have appellate jurisdiction over
all non-criminal dog-related violation matters (bot h PCCO Chapter 42 and ORS Chapter 609)
unless the particular matter was previously heard as a contested case by the Hearings Officer. The
Hearings Officer shall have full authority to approve, reject or impose non-criminal sanctions

 42-7

(consistent with a Penalty Schedule approved by the  Board of Commissioners) pursuant to state,
county, and local laws. The Hearings Officer shall issue written decisions containing Findings and
Conclusions. Written decision of the Hearings Offic er shall be issued and mailed to the relevant
parties (including the Dog Board) within ten (10) business days after the hearing. Decisions of the
Hearings Officer may be appealed pursuant to section 42.140. [Ord. 00-11; amended by Ord. 06-
12]

 42.133 CONTESTED CASES - PROCESS.

 (1) Contested cases are brought before (a) the Dog  Board, (b) the Hearings Officer, or
(c) the Circuit Court.

 (2) The Dog Control Officer will indicate on the c harging instrument where the matter
will be heard should the person charged wish to con test the charge. The charging instrument will
also include the following information:

   (a) Name of person charged
   (b) Charge(s)
   (c) Relevant date(s) and location(s)
   (c) Default Sanction(s)
   (d) Identification of contested case forum
   (e) Date and time for hearing of contested case
   (f) Statement that failure to either comply with  the Default Sanction or
appear at the contested case as scheduled will resu lt in automatic imposition of Default Sanction
and a monetary penalty of $150.

 (3) Contested Case Designation. To the extent poss ible, contested cases will be
assigned for hearing as follows:

   (a) Dog Board: (1) non-criminal livestock matter s; (2) non-criminal
bites; (3) designation of, and sanctions imposed ag ainst “potentially dangerous dogs” and
“dangerous dogs;”
   (b) Hearings Officer: (1) non-criminal licensing  matters; (2) non-
criminal barking matters (subject to decision of ei ther the Dog Board or the Hearings Officer to
refer the matter to community mediation);
   (c) Circuit Court: matters where a criminal sanc tion is sought. [Ord. 06-
12]

 42.134 APPLICATION FOR REVIEW.

 (1)  An aggrieved person may file an application f or review of any order of the Dog
Control Board not later than the 10 th  day after the order was signed, by filing a written copy of the
application for review in the office of the Board o f Commissioners. The application shall set out
reasons why the order should be reviewed.

 42-8

 (2)  The application for review will not be accept ed unless the aggrieved person:

 (a)  Presents written proof that all kennel, licen sing, medical, and identification
costs have been paid in full and in the case of kennel costs, have been pre-paid
for an additional twenty (20) days from the date th e application for review is
filed; and

(b)  Pays to the Board of Commissioners, a non-refu ndable $150 administrative
appeal fee.

 (3)  The Hearings Officer will conduct all appella te reviews unless the particular matter
was previously heard as a contested case by the Hearings Officer. [Ord. 00-17]

 42.140  REVIEW BY CIRCUIT COURT.

 (1)  Following final decision by the Hearings Offi cer, an aggrieved person may file the
appropriate appeal with the Circuit Court. To be ti mely, the appeal must be filed in proper form
with the Circuit Court with written conformed proof  of filing served on the Board of
Commissioners by no later than the 14 th  day after the date of the Hearings Officer’s writt en
decision.

 (2)  Any person appealing the Hearings Officer’s w ritten decision shall post security in
an amount determined by the Court (but in no case less than $500), sufficient to ensure payment of
kennel costs and/or internal county charges pending a decision by the Court. [Ord. 87-12; amended
by Ord. 88-17; amended by Ord. 00-11; amended by Ord. 00-17]

LIVESTOCK

42.200  LIVESTOCK DISTRICT

The entire area of unincorporated Polk County and the entire area of all
incorporated cities within Polk County are designated a “livestock district” as authorized by
election of November 3, 1908, and ORS Chapter 607, and as formally recognized by Order of the
Department of Agriculture, April 7, 1958.

42.201  DEFINITION: ADEQUATE FENCE

“Adequate fence” means as defined by ORS 607.007(1) .

42.202  PROHIBITION OF LIVESTOCK AT LARGE.

No person owning or having the custody, possession or control of an animal of a
class of livestock as defined in ORS Chapter 607 shall permit the animal to run at large or go

 42-9

upon the land of another.

 42.203  ADEQUATE FENCE

At any hearing to ascertain whether there has been a violation of section 42.202,
due consideration shall be given to the adequacy or inadequacy of existing fencing.

42.205  SANCTION.

Violation of section 42.202 shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine of not
more than $500 for a non-continuing violation and a fine of not more than $1000 for a continuing
offense.  These penalties shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law to Polk
County.

42.210  JURISDICTION.

The Circuit Court and the Polk County Dog Board have concurrent jurisdiction of
actions for the prosecution of violation of section 42.202.

Cross Reference:     ORS Reference:
Commercial Kennels, Sections 43.095 to 43.125 Rabies Control, ORS 433.340 to 433.390
Dog license fees, Res. 06-14   Exotic animals and w ildlife, ORS 609.205; ORS 496.004
Rules of Dog Control Board, Res. 90-12