48-1

JULY 2017

CHAPTER 48

JAIL INMATE PROPERTY

48.100 PURPOSE.

The purpose of this ordinance is to take legislativ e action to establish the procedure to be
followed when inmates are booked/received into the Polk County Jail and the property in their
possession is searched, inventoried and stored, or otherwise disposed of.  The Polk County Board of
Commissioners has determined that there is a serious, imminent risk to public safety associated with
transporting and storing items of personal property in the possession of a person or vehicle taken
into police custody when that personal property has not been inventoried.  Transporting or storing
un-inventoried property in Polk County vehicles or in Polk County facilities puts staff, inmates and
public property at risk by allowing the intentional or unintentional introduction of personal property
that contains toxic, explosive, hazardous or flammable substances, or weapons. In order to alleviate
this serious threat to public safety, the Board has  determined that no closed container in the
possession of a person taken into custody should be transported or stored in Polk County facilities or
vehicles unless it is inventoried.  In order to bal ance the need to ensure public safety with the
privacy rights of persons taken into police custody , this ordinance allows a person taken into
custody to turn their property over to a third part y present at the scene where they are taken into
custody. For vehicles being impounded, this ordinance also allows drivers and passengers who are
not being taken into custody to remove personal pro perty from the vehicle to avoid having the
property inventoried.

The Board has also determined that storage and transport of toxic, explosive, hazardous and
flammable materials is a highly regulated activity under both state and federal law, and that
inventory of all containers that will be stored in a County facility or transported in County vehicles
is necessary to comply with these restrictions.

This legislative enactment will prevent entry of contraband into the Jail, allow staff to check
inmates for body vermin, cuts, bruises, needle scars and other injuries, and to do so in a way that
protects the rights of the accused persons. This po licy applies to any person lodged at the Polk
County Jail. It is the intent of this ordinance to limit the discretion employed by County personnel in
conducting such inventories, so that a fixed and uniform procedure is followed in every case.

48.105 POLICY.

It shall be the policy of the Polk County Jail to receive all prisoners presented for booking in
a uniform manner so as to enhance security and ensu re the safety of all persons working in, or
confined to, the facility. Further, all prisoners p resented for booking shall be processed and
interviewed for pretrial release. Prisoners that the arresting officer intends to cite in lieu of custody
will remain under the constant supervision of the arresting/transporting officer.

               48-2
48.106 DEFINITIONS.

(1) CLOTHED SEARCH: A clothed search is a systemati c search of a
prisoner's/inmate’s clothing and body through his/her clothing. It shall be conducted
in a manner that is consistent with Polk County Jai l policy and procedure and
established professional practices.

(2)  CONTRABAND:  Anything which has not been issue d by the facility, transferred to
the inmate in an authorized manner, or sold to an i nmate through the facility
commissary.  Also, contraband is any item that has been altered from its original
use, or unauthorized surpluses of purchased or issu ed items.  Contraband is also
defined as any substance, weapon or item which Fede ral, State, or Local laws
prohibit a person, a prisoner or inmate from proces sing and any item which is
evidence in an alleged crime.  Contraband definitio ns do not include those items
received from the U.S. mail which are censored or withheld from delivery to inmates
in accordance with the correctional facility’s poli cy titled  “INMATE MAIL”
Contraband that may cause illness, injury or death may be used to facilitate an
escape, may be used as intoxicant, ingredients that  when combined are capable of
creating intoxicants.  Further, any item, or substance that is illegal to possess or use
shall be considered dangerous contraband.  All cont raband that is not considered
dangerous contraband (i.e., food items, issued items altered from its intended use)
shall be considered nuisance contraband.

(3) PROCESSED: The procedure by which custody docum ents are completed,
fingerprints are taken, and the prisoner is lodged or released from the facility.

(4) PRETRIAL RELEASE: The process by which prisoner s are released on court
ordered conditions prior to appearing as ordered by  the court. The courts give
authority to individuals authorized to initiate such agreements and delegate pretrial
release authority.

(5) CITATION IN LIEU OF CUSTODY: See ORS 133.045.

(6) WEAPONS: Any firearm, baton, clubbing devices, sap, sap glove, knife, stabbing
devices, chemical agent, or electronic stunning dev ice. This definition further
defines live rounds, cartridges, or charges as weapons.

(7) FIREARM: A weapon from which a shot is discharg ed by gunpowder.

(8) ROUNDS, CARTRIDGES, and CHARGES: A casing consi sting of a fuse,
propelling charge and primers fired from a firearm.

(9) INVENTORY: Inspecting, opening any item (contai ner, wallets, and purse) for
inspection and inventory of those items.

(10) HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:  Substances, materials or  items which pose a threat
to staff, inmates or County property due to their:

               48-3
(a)  Ability to rapidly conflagrate or detonate as a consequence of chemical reaction.
Examples include ammunition, fireworks, pyrotechnics, flares, blasting caps, or
detonators.

(b)  Flammability, potential as asphyxiants, ability to oxidize and/or their toxicity or
corrosiveness to humans. Examples include but are n ot limited to aerosols,
compressed air, gas cartridges, fertilizer, ammonia ting solutions, insecticides,
refrigerant gases, lighters, or acetylene.

(c)  Volatility, combustibility and potential in causing  or propagating severe
conflagrations. Examples include but are not limite d to acetone, adhesives,
paints, lacquers, alcohols, perfumes, gasoline, diesel, kerosene, tars, turpentine,
pesticides, benzene, methanol, or octanes.

(d)  Ability to either to cause death or serious injury or to harm human health if
swallowed, inhaled or by skin contact. This includes infectious substances which
are known or can be reasonably expected to contain pathogens, such as bacteria,
viruses, parasites and fungi, or other agents which can cause disease in humans
or animals.  Examples include but are not limited t o tear gas substances, acids,
arsenic, biomedical waste, medical cultures or samp les, cyanide, lead
compounds, mercury compounds, or chloroform.

(e)  Corrosive nature which may cause severe damage when  in contact with living
tissue or, in the case of leakage, damage or destro y surrounding materials.
Examples include but are not limited to acids, batt eries, fuel cells, dyes,
formaldehyde, flux, paints, chlorides, bromine, phenol, nitric acid, sulphuric acid
or iodine.

48.110 PROCEDURE.

 Law enforcement agencies which routinely use the j ail for housing their inmates should be
provided copies of directives or other information which:

(1) Explain pre-admission procedures;

(2) Provide requirements which must be met for the jail to admit inmates received at the
jail for booking; and explain the circumstances which may prohibit booking deputies
from accepting inmates in jail.

48.200 RECEPTION OF PRISONERS.

(1) Incoming arresting/transporting officers with p risoners will request admittance via
the intercom pedestal outside the Vehicular Sallypo rt. Arresting/Transporting
officers must secure their weapon(s) in their vehic le or vehicle sallyport gun
locker prior to requesting admittance via the Pedestrian Door.

               48-4
(2) If the control room staff does not recognize th e vehicle or officer(s) attempting to
gain access to the vehicle sallyport or pedestrian entrance to the sallyport, the
following procedure shall be followed:

(a) The control room staff shall make a reasonable attempt to determine that the
person bringing the inmate to the jail is a peace o fficer or other authorized to
book the inmate, and that the inmate is being lawfully committed to jail;

(b) The control room staff will notify the Intake/R elease deputy of the person's
name, agency, and the nature of the business at the Polk County Jail.

(c) The control room staff, after clearance has bee n obtained from the
Intake/Release deputy, shall then admit the vehicle into the vehicular sallyport. If
the individual is on foot and is seeking access to the Intake/Release sallyport via
the pedestrian door, the individual shall be admitted when a Corrections Deputy
is present to ensure the identity of the person, the agency that is represented, and
the nature of their business at the Polk County Jail.

(3) The arresting/transporting officer shall presen t identification upon request.

(4) Requests for assistance by the arresting/transp orting officer will be referred by the
control room staff to the Intake/Release deputy.  If needed, the booking deputy may
request assistance from the arresting or transporting officer to remain in the booking
room until the arrestee has been searched and secured.

(5)    Upon admission into the Vehicular Sallyport,  the arresting/transporting officer will
enter the Vehicular Sallyport, turn off the vehicle , and remove the key from the
ignition.

(6) Prisoners will not be allowed to remain in unat tended vehicles parked in the
Vehicular Sallyport except for short periods of time while the arresting/transporting
officer secures his/her weapon(s).

(7) The arresting/transporting officer will exit th e vehicle, leaving the prisoner inside,
and secure all weapons and other firearms not secured in the vehicle's gun rack or in
the vehicle's trunk. The gun locker in the Vehicular Sallyport is located adjacent to
the Intake/Release Sallyport door within the Vehicular Sallyport.

(8) Arresting/transporting officers will then reque st entrance into the Intake/Release
Sallyport by using the intercom. The arresting/transporting officer will be met in the
Intake/Pat-down Sallyport by the Receiving Deputy. Each new inmate that is
brought into the Polk County Jail should not be adm itted unless handcuffed
behind them, or restrained by other devices which a chieve the same function. All
new arrests will be visually observed for any signs  of injury or illness prior to
being accepted into the  facility for processing. The booking deputy reserve s the
right to refuse the acceptance of the individual an d instruct the arresting officer to
have the detainee examined by a physician prior to acceptance. Inmates that are
refused admittance into the Polk County Jail will n eed to have written medical
clearance from a physician to be lodged in the Polk County Jail.

               48-5
(9) Once the inmate has been accepted they will be searched for any property that has
been left on their person pursuant to the following requirements:

(a)  A deputy must remove all personal property from the  person in custody
(except clothing) including everything in the perso n’s pockets.  If practicable
under the circumstances, the person in custody shal l be permitted to turn over
personal property to third parties so that this property will not inventoried.

(b)  A deputy shall inspect all personal property from t he person in custody.  This
includes opening and inspecting containers which are likely to contain cash or
other small valuables. This includes any closed con tainers, wallets, purses or
any property that will be retained by the Polk County Jail. A deputy who finds
money or other valuables located in a closed contai ner pursuant to an
inspection under this subsection shall promptly inv entory the valuables or
money.

(c)  A deputy shall inspect all containers which are lik ely to contain hazardous
materials.  Any items found to be unacceptable, to be hazardous materials
(drugs, alcohol, live ammunition, weapons, explosiv e devices) or items
otherwise considered contraband will be turned over to the arresting officer or
otherwise disposed of.  The express purpose of this  requirement is to ensure
that toxic, explosive, hazardous or flammable subst ances are identified and
safely handled and do not put the public, staff, in mates or public property at
risk.

(d)  A receipt will be issued for any property taken by the arresting officer and a
receipt will be issued for all property that will b e retained at the Polk County
Jail. Contraband found after the arresting officer leaves will be secured and
the arresting agency will be notified and requested  to collect the contraband
item(s).

(e)  The inmate will be asked to sign the jail property receipt. If an inmate refuses
to sign the property sheet, the booking deputy will  write “Refused” in the
inmates signature block and have another jail deput y sign as a witness along
with the booking deputy.

(f)  All small property items will be placed into a  plastic bag, which will be sealed
and placed into a large property bag along with the  remaining property, which
is numbered and logged into the computerized bookin g system. This property
will be secured in the jail property room for safek eeping until the inmates’
release.

(10) If the prisoner is uncooperative or violent du ring the initial search or a more
intrusive search is required because of reasonable suspicion of weapons, drugs, other
contraband, or medical related conditions, the arrestee will be taken directly to the
changeover room for an unclothed search to be completed by a deputy of the same
gender. All property will be removed prior to the handcuffs being removed.

(11) Once the prisoner has been received into the I ntake/Release Unit with a valid and
accurate booking report from the arresting officer, the handcuffs may be removed.
               48-6

(12) Intake/Release staff will begin to initiate an d process inmate file material.

(13) If the arresting/transporting Officer wishes t o interview the prisoner, the booking
deputy will escort the inmate to the interview room. If the prisoner is uncooperative,
he/she shall be secured in an unoccupied holding cell until cooperation is gained.

(14) If the arresting/transporting officer has no n eed to interview the prisoner and the
prisoner is cooperative and presents no security ri sks, he/she may be directed to
the waiting area until processing can begin.

(15) All inmates, who present a serious risk to har m or infect others, will be
temporarily segregated between intake and classific ation. Those inmates who are
a suicide risk, are extremely vulnerable, or highly  dangerous will be closely
observed during this time.

48.300 INITIAL PROCESSING OF PRISONERS.

(1) The arresting/transporting officer shall fully complete a Custody Report and if
applicable a Probable Cause Determination Statement prior to leaving the facility.

(2) The Receiving Deputy shall ensure that the Cust ody Report and Probable Cause
Determination Statement is complete, and that the arresting/transporting officer has
signed the document.

(3) Upon the Receiving Deputy's satisfaction that t he all paperwork has been completed,
the prisoner will be accepted.

(4) Fingerprints of each prisoner shall be taken pr ior to the prisoner leaving the facility,
except those who are arrested on other County holds or probation sanctions.

(5) Photographs shall be taken of each prisoner.

48.310 PROCESSING INMATES TO BE LODGED.

(1) The Intake/Release staff shall complete the fol lowing:

(a) Review the Custody Report to determine if all n ecessary information has been
completed.

(b)  Ensure that all Booking information is entered into the Management Information
System, to include, but not limited to:

a.  Current illness or injuries
b.  Significant medical history problems
c.  Current treatment by a physician
d.  Physicians name
e.  Current medication(s)
               48-7
f.  Pregnancy or other female issues
g.  Suicide screening (current thoughts or past attempts)
h.  Mental health issues (current or past diagnoses, treatment and behavior)
i.  Current drug or alcohol use or detoxification issues, and
j.  Need for prosthesis, wheelchair hearing or eye correction, etc.

(c)  Ensure that all suicide screening and mental health  information is entered into
the Management Information System, to include but not limited to:

a.  Previous suicide attempts
b.  Current state of mind and suicidal ideas
c.  Information from arresting/transporting officers re lated to observed or
noted risk factors
d.  Family history of suicide or suicide attempts
e.  Scars or other physical evidence of prior suicide attempts.

(d) Inventory all remaining inmate property and issue a receipt to the inmate for the
items. Inmates may retain the following items of personal property for use while
detained at the Facility:

a.  All legal papers.
b.  Prescription glasses.
c.  Paperback address booklets.
d.  Prosthetic devices

(e) All remaining pocket property will be sealed into a plastic bag; all cash will be
placed into the cash drawer and posted to the inmates account;

(f) The inmate will be billed for a hygiene kit;

(g) If the arrestee has exhausted all efforts to post security and advises that they have
no one available to post their bail, they will be moved into jail population.  The
inmate will then be escorted into the shower and changed into jail clothing.   An
unclothed search may be conducted on any inmates be ing transitioned from
booking to a housing unit.  Unclothed searches will be conducted on all arrestees
who meet the established criteria of this section.  The purpose of either the
inspection or search is to detect amputations, defo rmities, track marks or other
signs of drug use, vermin, injury, communicable dis eases, and/or contraband.
This search shall be limited to the purpose underly ing the justification of the
search.   If there is an indication of vermin, medi cal staff will be notified.
Inmates will be provided materials used for delousi ng and will be required to
undergo delousing procedures. The inmate will then be placed in an isolated area
until re-evaluated and cleared by medical staff. A report shall be generated,
documenting the infestation, what action was taken,  and any follow-up
instructions from medical staff. The infected area, with all clothing and bedding
will be removed and decontaminated.  Booking deputies shall document the type
of search conducted, the reason for the search and the person conducting the
search.  If at any time during the book in process the arrestee indicates that they
have bail money on the way, they should be given a reasonable amount of time
to secure bail, prior to an unclothed search being conducted.
               48-8

(e) The inmate's clothing will be placed into a pro perty bag, identified with the
inmate's name and property number, which is then st ored in a well-ventilated
property room.

(f) Inmates will be issued jail clothing, and provi ded soap and warm water and
required to shower.

(g) The inmate will also be given an inmate manual.

(h) Each inmate will be issued a photo ID card prior to being lodged.

(2) After all of the above steps have been complete d, the inmate will be given bedding
and an intake pack, containing hygiene items, and escorted to the appropriate
housing unit.

48.320 RECEIVING FEMALES.

When a female prisoner is brought to the Jail, a female employee should be present to assist
with the admission process and to conduct all searches. This will ensure that the sexual privacy of
the female inmate is not violated.

 48.330 RECEIVING JUVENILES.

Persons under the age of 18 shall not be admitted to the Jail. The Sheriff and the director of
the County juvenile department may agree to detain the person charged in a place other than the
county jail.

48.400 RECEIPTING AND STORING PROPERTY.

(1) When an inmate is lodged into the Polk County J ail, all personal property including
jewelry, money, etc. will be taken.

(a) Alcohol, firearms, live ammunition, explosive devices or any item that the mere
possession of would constitute a crime, will not be accepted into the facility, but
rather retained by the arresting/transporting officer.

(b) All large bulky items (i.e., backpacks, guitars, bicycles, etc.) will not be accepted
into the facility. The arresting/transporting officer will retain large bulky items of
prisoner property.

(c)  Prisoner clothing suspected of being chemicall y contaminated will be retained
by the arresting/transporting officer and will not be accepted into the Polk
County Jail. The facility may accept one set of clo thing to be placed in the
inmate's property container for the inmates use at the time of his/her release.

               48-9
(2) Should an inmate be wearing a Medic-Alert Ident ification bracelet or necklace,
he/she shall be allowed to retain the article and i t will be noted in the Property
Inventory form and the Medical Screening Form.

(3) All items taken or retained by the arresting/tr ansporting officer will be noted on the
Inmate Property Inventory Form, which the inmate will sign, the Receiving deputy
will cosign, and a copy will be issued to the inmat e. The Receiving Deputy will
obtain, if possible, a copy of the Detail Report from the arresting/transporting officer
on all items of prisoner personal property that is confiscated or retained.

(4) All items of inmate personal property will be i nventoried in the Inmate Management
System and the inmate will sign the document and be  cosigned by the receiving
deputy and a receipt will be issued. All inmate property, including closed containers,
clothing, and pocket property will be searched prior to being placed in the property
bag.

(5) Inmate shoes and clothing will be placed in a p roperty bag and stored securely in a
well-ventilated Property Room.

(6) All pocket property (wallet, jewelry, pocketkni ves, etc.), except money, will be
placed in a separate plastic bag, sealed, and stored in the property bag. All cash will
be placed into the locked cash drawer in the booking room after being counted, and
posted to the inmates account.

(a) All collector type moneys (i.e., silver coins, foreign currency, tokens, etc.) will
be placed along with other pocket property.

(7) Inmates will only be allowed one change of clot hing in their property bag. A change
of clothes may be brought in by a friend or family member if needed for a court
appearance, or if the inmates clothing is not appropriate for the weather should they
be released. Ex: If the inmate was booked into the facility in shorts during the
summer, and was released during the winter, it would be appropriate to have warmer
clothing brought in. A signed “ Release of property “ form will need to be completed
by the inmate before any property is released to fa mily or friends and any new
property being added to the inmates property bag wi ll need to be documented and
recorded.

(8) If inmates who are being released do not have a ppropriate clothing for the outside
weather, then the releasing Deputy will be responsible to make sure that the clothing
needed will be issued to that inmate. If the inmate does not have a pair of shoes in
their possession upon release, then a pair shall be given to them.

48.500 PROCESSING INMATES FOR RELEASE.

(1) The Deputy shall complete the following steps p rior to releasing an inmate:

(a) Positive I.D. of the inmate to be released is determined;

(b) Verification of release authority;
               48-10

(d)  File and computer check completed to verify no hold s detainers or
commitments;

(d) LEDS check has been completed to verify no outstanding warrants;

(e) Polk County property has been returned and documented;

(f) Inmate property has been returned and documented;

(g) Documentation of the release has been completed; and

(h) Fingerprints and photographs have been taken.

(2) Inmate having completed their sentences will be  processed and released the day their
sentence is served, provided no detainer exists, that there are no holds, warrants, or
commitments outstanding which would preclude release.  Inmates will be processed
and released between 0700 and 0800 hours, unless re lease time is otherwise
specified (i.e. sanction).

(3) Inmates held pending release, will be processed , and released when the Courts, or
State Release Staff, provide proper documentation confirming the authorization of
release. Inmates to be transferred or committed to another jurisdiction or institution
will be processed and released when:

(a) A commitment order or transfer order from the court is received; or,

(b) The transporting officer responsible for transp orting the inmate has provided
proper identification.

(c) Intake staff will document on the Inmate Manage ment card, the Transportation
Officer's name, and agency prior to the officer taking custody of the inmate.

(4) An inmate found not guilty, or who has had his/ her charges dismissed, will be
processed and released when the Polk County Jail receives documentation from the
District Attorney, or appropriate court, verifying such information.

(5) Inmates will, upon completion of release proces sing, verification of release authority
and verification of inmate identity, be escorted by a deputy and released through the
east intake exit door, ensuring that the individual does in fact exit the building.

48.505 RETURN OF INMATE PERSONAL PROPERTY.

(1) When an inmate is to be released from the custo dy of the Facility, the inmate and
deputy shall ensure that all items of property, inc luding money, are accounted for
and returned, except for that which was seized as evidence or was otherwise lawfully
confiscated, retained, or destroyed. The deputy wil l issue a facility check for the
inmate’s money. The deputy will secure the inmate's signature for personal property
and the return of money.
               48-11

(2) If any discrepancy arises concerning inmate pro perty or funds, every effort will be
made to resolve the issue. If the issue cannot be resolved, a report will be forwarded
to a Supervisor detailing the circumstances.

48.510 POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION OF INMATES TO BE RELEASED.

(1) The Deputy shall ensure the identity of the inm ate to be released by:

(a) Comparing the photograph in the inmate management system to the inmate, or,

(b) Requiring the inmate to produce receipts for funds or property issued during the
Intake/Booking process and compare signatures to the originals for verification;
or,

(c) Having the inmate sign for his/her personal pro perty on the Inmate Property
Inventory form, comparing the signature to the original signature.

(2) If any doubt exists in the Deputy's mind as to the correct identity of the inmate to be
released, the Deputy will utilize the thumbprint id entification pad. If any further
questions remain, notify a Supervisor of the situation.

(3) If the inmate is being released to another juri sdiction, the identity and authority of
the official taking custody of the inmate shall be verified.

48.515 DOCUMENTATION OF RELEASE.

(1) The Intake/Release Staff will ensure that the f ollowing items are entered on the
Intake Log for all individuals released from the facility:

(a) The inmate's name and booking number;

(b) Time and date released;

(c) Charges released on, type of release, and authorization for release;

(d) The agency of person to whom the prisoner was released, if any.

(2) Intake/Release Staff will have the inmate sign a property form acknowledging
receipt of his/her personal property and money.

(3) The Intake/Release staff will ensure that the p ertinent release information is entered
into the computer and properly signed documents are placed in the inmate’s jail file.
If the inmate refuses to sign the property form, th e releasing deputy will write
“Refused” on the signature block and sign that the property and money was
returned.

               48-12
(4) The Intake/Release staff will ensure that the i nmate to be released from the Facility
has his/her name removed from the Facility Inmate R oster and The Facility
population count.

(5)  The Intake/Release staff shall notify Control of the pending release of the inmate.

(6) The inmate to be released shall be escorted to the Intake/Release room for
processing.

48.520 RELEASE OF INMATE PROPERTY TO THE PUBLIC.

(1) Before inmate pocket property can be released, the inmate must completely fill-out
and sign a Property Release Form. Prior to releasing an inmate's pocket property to
an individual, the Property Officer must request valid picture identification from the
receiving person, verify the property inventory with the receiving person, and secure
the receiving person's signature on the release form. A copy of the release form will
be given to the receiving person along with the poc ket property. A copy will be
given to the inmate and the white original copy wil l be placed in the bin with the
inmate's clothing.

(2) The same procedure will be followed in receivin g money as in receiving inmate
personal property. The sum of cash will be added to  the inmate's account and the
funds will be placed into the safe.

 Contraband found after the arresting officer leave s will be secured in the Jail
Property/Evidence Lockers which are located in the staff entrance area. The
arresting agency will be notified and requested to collect the contraband item(s) and
issue a receipt to the inmate for items taken.

[Enacted Ord. 03-05]