43-1

 CHAPTER 43        2010

 NUISANCE ABATEMENT
TITLE AND SCOPE

 43.005  TITLE.

 This Chapter may be cited as the Nuisance Abatemen t Ordinance.

 43.010  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.

 It is the purpose of this Chapter to provide a jus t, equitable, and practicable method, to be
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy  provided by law, whereby conditions exist
which from any cause endanger the life, limb, healt h, safety, or welfare of the general public are
prohibited and may be abated.

 43.020  GENERAL.

 (1)  The directors of the departments responsible for administration or oversight of the
following sections of this Chapter, or other Polk County codes and ordinances or laws of the State
of Oregon, are authorized to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.

 (2)  The Board may, by order, designate enforcemen t officers to assist the directors in
enforcing this Chapter.

 DEFINITIONS

 43.030   GENERAL DEFINITIONS .

 For the purpose of this Chapter, words used in the  present tense include the future, the
singular number includes the plural, the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory, and the term
"this Chapter" shall be deemed to include all amend ments hereafter made to this Chapter. The
definitions applicable to this Chapter are:

 (1)   ABANDONED BUILDING. A building or structure in which no one claims a right
or interest in or one that the owner has withdrawn all rights or interest in.

 (2)   ADMINISTRATOR. The County Engineer, County H ealth Officer, County
Sanitarian, or other person designated by resolutio n of the Board to administer the Solid Waste
Collection and Disposal Code and the duly authorized deputy or assistant of such person.

 (3)  BOARD.  The Polk County Board of Commissioner s.

 (4)   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The person designated by  the Board to administer the
Building Code, or his or her duly authorized agent(s). [Ord. 94-4, Sec. 7.]

  (5)   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  For the purpose of this Chapter, any building or
structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects herein described shall be deemed to be a
dangerous building, provided that such condition or defects exist to the extent that the life, health,
property, or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered.

 43-2

  (a)  Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairw ay, or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arrang ed as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.

  (b)  Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, p assageway, stairway, or other
means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or o therwise unsafe as to not
provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.

  (c)  Whenever the stress in any materials, member  or portion thereof, due to all
dead and live loads, is more than one and one half times the working stress
or stresses allowed in the Building Code for new bu ildings of similar
structure, purpose, or location.

  (d)  Whenever any portion thereof has been damage d by fire, earthquake, wind,
flood, or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural strength or
stability thereof is materially less than it was before such catastrophe and is
less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose, or location.

  (e)  Whenever any portion or member or appurtenan ce thereof is likely to fail, or
to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property.

  (f)  Whenever any portion of a building, or any m ember, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or stability,
or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in pla ce so as to be capable of
resisting a wind pressure of one half of that speci fied in the Building Code
for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or  location without
exceeding the working stresses permitted in the Bui lding Code for such
buildings.

  (g)  Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, wa rped, buckled, or settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural porti ons have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction.

  (h)  Whenever the building or structure, or any p ortion thereof, because of (i)
dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; (ii) faulty construction; (iii) the
removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for
the purpose of supporting such building; (iv) the d eterioration, decay, or
inadequacy of its foundation; or (v) any other cause, is likely to partially or
completely collapse.

  (i)  Whenever, for any reason, the building or st ructure, or any portion thereof, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.

       (j)  Whenever the exterior walls or other ve rtical structural members list, lean,
or buckle to such an extent that the building offic ial finds the building or
structure to be hazardous.

 43-3

       (k) Whenever the building or structure, excl usive of the foundation, shows 33
percent or more damage or deterioration of its supp orting member or
members, or 50 percent damage or deterioration of i ts non-supporting
members, enclosing, or outside wall or coverings.

       (l)  Whenever the building or structure has been damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become (i) an attractive nuisance to children; (ii)  a harborage or breeding
area for rodents and insects (iii) a harbor for vag rants or criminals; or as to
(iv) enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing unlawful
acts.

       (m)  Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists, or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure as specified by the B uilding Code, Zoning
Ordinance, or any applicable law, regulation, code, or ordinance of the State
or Polk County.

       (n)  Whenever any building or structure whic h, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances,  has in any non-
supporting part, member, or portion less than 50 pe rcent, or in any
supporting part, member, or portion less than 66 percent of the (i) strength,
(ii) fire-resisting qualities or characteristics, o r (iii) weather-resisting
qualities or characteristics required by law in the case of a newly constructed
building of like area, height, and occupancy in the same location.

       (o)  Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, toxic chemical contamination,
dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate
light, air or sanitation facilities, or otherwise i s determined by the Health
Officer to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitatio n, or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease.

       (p)  Whenever any building or structure, bec ause of obsolescence, dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits,  lack of sufficient fire-
resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas  connections or heating
apparatus, or other cause is determined by the Buil ding Official or District
Fire Chief to be a fire hazard.

       (q)  Whenever any building or structure is i n such a condition as to constitute a
public nuisance under Oregon statutes or Polk County ordinances.

       (r)  Whenever any portion of a building or s tructure remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building or struct ure or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of four (4) months
or vacant in excess of six (6) months so as to cons titute such building or
portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.

 43-4

 (6)  DIRECTOR. The persons designated by the Board  as the Building Official,
Planning Director, or Environmental Health Director.

 (7)   DISPOSE OR DISPOSAL. Includes accumulation, storage, collection,
transportation, and disposal of solid wastes or recyclable materials.

 (8)  DISPOSAL SITE.  Any land or facilities used f or the disposal, handling, or transfer
of or resource recovery from solid waste and waste including but not limited to dumps, landfills,
sanitary landfills, and composting plants, but does not include a landfill site which is not used by
the public either directly or through a service and which is used by the owner or tenant thereof to
dispose of soil, rock, or non-putrescible industria l waste products resulting from the process of
manufacturing.

      (9)  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The Director or ot her persons designated by the
Board to assist the Director in enforcing this Ordinance.

    (10)   FRANCHISE.  A general privilege to provi de specified solid waste management
services issued by the Board. A "Franchisee" is the holder of a franchise.

  (11)   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.

  (a)  A dismantled, unserviceable, inoperable, jun ked, or abandoned vehicle or
any vehicle legally or physically incapable of bein g operated for a period
exceeding 30 days unless such vehicle, or parts the reof, is completely
enclosed within a building (or otherwise concealed in a manner deemed
appropriate for the circumstances by Polk County Co mmunity
Development), or stored on property lawfully designated under the Zoning
Ordinances of Polk County as a place where such veh icles may be stored.
[Amended by Ord. 10-06, Sec. 1]

  (b)  An inoperable vehicle shall not mean a licen sed or unlicensed camper trailer,
utility trailer, or unlicensed operable vehicle or vehicles which are used on
private property for the production, propagation, or harvesting of agricultural
products grown or raised on such lands.

     (12)   COMMERCIAL KENNEL.  A facility for the keeping of dogs which have a set of
permanent canine teeth or have become six months of age, if:

  (a) The facility receives more than $250 in gross  receipts during a year for
sheltering dogs that are not the property of the operator of the facility:

  (b) The facility is privately operated as an anim al shelter, whether for profit or
not for profit; or

  (c) The facility is operated for the production o r sheltering of dogs that are to be
offered for commercial sale.  [Amended by Ord. 91-11, Sec. 4]

    (13)   LANDFILL.  A disposal site operated by m eans of compacting and covering solid
waste at specific designated intervals, but not each day.

 43-5

 (14)   MOTOR VEHICLE TIRE.  Any motor vehicle tire  made wholly or in part of rubber
or of any other synthetic material, including tire bodies, carcasses, casings, or part of tires in
whatever form, originally designed for use by any v ehicle propelled by a motor, including any
vehicle pushed or pulled by a motorized vehicle.

 (15) NON-CONFORMING USE. The lawful use of land on  the effective date of the
Polk County Zoning Code which does not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which
the land is located.

    (16)   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A syste m or any part of a system to
dispose of liquid and solid sewage. Parts include s eptic tank, disposal trenches, effluent pipe,
dosing tank and pump, diversion ditch, tile de-wate ring trench, sand filter, capping fill, holding
tank, and alarms.

     (17)  PERMIT.  A limited license to provide a specified service, or to install an on-site
sewage disposal system, or to construct a building, or to make an electrical installation, or to use a
parcel in a specified manner. "Permittee" is the holder of a permit. [Ord. 94-4, Sec. 8]

    (18)  PERSON.  Includes individuals, corporatio ns, associations, firms, partnerships, and
joint stock companies.

     (19)  RECYCLING DEPOT. A center, depot drop bo x, or other place for receiving
source-separated, recyclable materials with or with out compensation. This shall not include a
salvage, junk, or auto-wrecking yard.

     (20)  REGULATIONS.  Rules or regulations promu lgated by the Board pursuant to this
Chapter.

     (21)  RULES.  Rules promulgated by State agenc ies.

     (22)  SANITARY LANDFILL.  A disposal site oper ated by means of compacting and
covering solid waste at least once each operating day.

     (23) SEWAGE.  Water carried human wastes, incl uding kitchen, bath, and laundry
wastes from residences, buildings, industrial estab lishments, or other places together with such
groundwater infiltration, surface waters, or industrial waste as may be present.

     (24)  SOLID WASTE.  Solid waste shall include all putrescible and non-putrescible
waste including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbi sh, refuse, ashes, waste paper, and cardboard;
grass clippings; composts; sewer sludge; residentia l, commercial, and industrial appliances,
equipment, and furniture; discarded, inoperable, or abandoned vehicles or vehicle parts and waste
motor vehicle tires; manure, vegetable, animal soli d and semi-solid waste, and dead animals.
Waste shall mean useless, unwanted, or discarded materials. The fact that materials, which would
otherwise come within the definition of solid waste  or waste, may from time to time have value
and thus be utilized shall not remove them from the definition. The terms solid waste or waste do
not include:

  (a)  Environmentally hazardous wastes as defined in ORS 466.005.

 43-6

  (b)  Materials used for fertilizer or for other p roductive purposes on land in
agricultural operations in the growing and harvesting of crops or the raising
of fowl or animals. This exception does not apply to the keeping of animals
on land that has been zoned for residential non-agricultural purposes.

  (c)  Septic tank and cesspool pumping or chemical  toilet waste.

  (d)  Reusable beverage containers as defined in O RS 459.860.

  (e)  Source-separated principal recyclable materi als as defined in ORS Chapter
459 and the rules promulgated thereunder and under this Chapter that have
been purchased or exchanged for fair market value.

     (25)  TRANSFER SITE OR TRANSFER FACILITY.  A f ixed or mobile facility, used as
an adjunct to collection vehicle(s), resource recovery facility, disposal site between the collection of
the waste/solid waste and disposal site, including but not limited to, another vehicle, a concrete
slab, pit, building, hopper, railroad gondola, or barge.

     (26)  USE.  The purpose of which land or a bui lding is arranged, designed, or intended, or
for which either land or a building is or may be occupied.

     (27)  VACANT.  Any building or structure remai ning unoccupied or unused for a period
of six (6) months or longer shall be deemed vacant.  This shall not include those buildings or
structures found to be dangerous, imminently dangerous, or contaminated by toxic chemicals. Such
buildings may be deemed vacant if found to be unocc upied or unused at the time of the initial
inspection.

(28)  VECTOR.  An organism that transmits a pathogen.  [Ord. 04-11]

     (29)  WASTE.  Useless, unwanted, or discarded materials.

    (30)  WASTE TIRE.  A tire that is no longer sui table for its original intended purpose
because of wear, damage, or defect, and is fit only for:

  (a)  Remanufacture into something else, including  a recapped tire; or

  (b)  Some other use which differs substantially f rom its original use.

     (31)  WASTE TIRE PERMIT.  Any person engaged i n picking up, transporting, or
accumulating waste tires for waste tire salvage or disposal, whether or not incidental to another
business, and who has obtained a permit under this Chapter prior to so acting; but excluding
franchise holders under the Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Code.

     (32)  WASTE TIRE SALVAGE.  The use of a scrap tire for a purpose other than on a
motor vehicle. The term "waste tire salvage" does not include the recycling of waste tires through
recapping or other means for the purpose of making said waste tires suitable for use on a motor

 43-7

vehicle.

  NUISANCES DEFINED

 43.040   NUISANCES DEFINED.

 For purposes of this Chapter, a public nuisance co nsists of unlawfully doing an act, or
omitting to perform a duty, which act or omission annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health,
comfort, or repose of others.

 SOLID WASTE

 43.050  CREATION OF NUISANCE BY ACCUMULATION OF SOL ID WASTE
PROHIBITED.

  Except as provided in the Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Code, no person shall store,
collect, maintain, or display on private property, waste or solid waste that is offensive or hazardous
to the health and safety of the public or which cre ates offensive odors or a condition of
unsightliness. Storage, collection, maintenance, or display of wastes or solid wastes in violation of
this section shall be considered to be a public nuisance.

 43.055   UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING PROHIBITED.

 Except at landfills, transfer sites, and recycling  depots approved by the Board; no person
shall allow the accumulation or temporary storage of the following materials on any property:

 (1)  Bulky, unsightly materials including, but not  limited to; appliances, inoperable or
abandoned vehicles or parts, building demolition wa stes, industrial wood wastes, land clearing
debris, discarded furniture and bedding, or scrap metals shall not be accumulated or stored for more
than thirty (30) days.

 (2)  Household type rubbish, debris, or garbage sh all not be accumulated or stored for
more than fourteen (14) days.

 43.056  UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING IN WATERS OF STATE.

 (1) As used in this section, "waters of the State"  has the meaning defined by ORS
468.700.

 (2) As provided in ORS 164.775, it is unlawful for  any person to discard any glass,
cans, or other similar refuse in any waters of the State; and it is unlawful for any person to discard
any glass, cans or other trash, rubbish, debris, litter or solid waste on land within 100 yards of any
of the waters of the State other than in receptacles provided for the purpose of holding such trash,
rubbish, debris, or litter. [Ord. 91-35, Sec. 2]

 43.057  UNAUTHORIZED DISCHARGES INTO THE STORM SEW ER SYSTEM

(1)  As used in this section:

(a)  “Pollutant” means anything which causes or contribu tes to pollution.
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: pai nts, varnishes, and

 43-8

solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; non-haza rdous liquid and solid
wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or
abandoned objects, and accumulations, so that some may cause or contribute
to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, a nd fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and resid ues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.

(b)  “Stormwater” means any surface flow, runoff, and dr ainage consisting of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and r esulting from such
precipitation.

(c)  “Storm sewer system” means publicly owned facilities by which stormwater
is collected and/or conveyed, including but not lim ited to any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, ditch es, curbs, inlets, piped
storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs , and other drainage
structures.

(2)  No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharg e into the storm sewer system
any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants,  other than stormwater. The commencement,
conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm sewer system is prohibited except as
described as follows:

(a)  The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this section: water line flushing, landscape irrigation, diverted
stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground water
infiltration, uncontaminated pumped ground water, discharges from potable
water sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation
water, springs, water from crawl space pumps, footi ng drains, lawn
watering, individual residential car washing, flows  from riparian habitats
and wetlands, dechlorinated swimming pool discharge s, roadway wash
water, road maintenance and safety activity dischar ges, and similar
discharges as subsequently authorized.

(b)  Discharges or flow from firefighting, and other dis charges specified in
writing by Polk County as being necessary to protec t public health and
safety.

(c)  Discharges associated with dye testing.

(d)  The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwat er discharge permitted
under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge o rder issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), provided that the discharger is in
full compliance with all requirements of the permit , waiver, or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has
been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.

 43-9

 43.058  UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL OF OFFENSIVE SUBSTAN CES.

 As provided in ORS 164.785:

 (1) It is unlawful for any person, including a per son in the possession or control of any
land, to discard any dead animal carcass or part th ereof, excrement, putrid, nauseous, noisome,
decaying, deleterious, or offensive substance into or in any other manner befoul, pollute, or impair
the quality of any spring, river, brook, creek, branch, well, irrigation drainage ditch, irrigation ditch,
cistern, or pond of water.

 (2) It is unlawful for any person to place or caus e to be placed any polluting substance
listed in subsection (1) of this section into any r oad, street, alley, lane, railroad right-of-way, lot,
field, meadow, or common. It is unlawful for an owner thereof knowingly to permit any polluting
substances to remain in any of the places described in this subsection to the injury of the health or to
the annoyance of any citizen of this state.

 (3) Nothing in this section applies to the storage  or spreading of manure or like
substance for agricultural, silvicultural, or horti cultural purposes, except that no sewage sludge,
septic tank or cesspool pumpings shall be used for these purposes unless treated and applied in a
manner approved by the Department of Environmental Quality. [Ord. 91-35, Sec. 3]

 43.059  OFFENSIVE LITTERING.

 (1) As used in this section:

  (a) "Public transportation facility" has the mean ing defined by ORS 164.365.

  (b) "Public way" includes, but is not limited to,  roads, streets, alleys, lanes,
trails, beaches, parks, and all recreational facilities operated by the State, a
county, or a local municipality for use by the general public.

 (2) As provided in ORS 164.805, a person commits t he violation of offensive littering if
the person creates an objectionable stench or degra des the beauty or appearance of property or
detracts from the natural cleanliness or safety of property by intentionally:

  (a) Discarding or depositing any rubbish, trash, garbage, debris, or other refuse
or solid waste upon the land of another without permission of the owner, or
upon any public way or in or upon any public transportation facility; or

  (b) Draining or causing or permitting to be drain ed, garbage, debris or other
refuse or solid waste upon any public way or in or upon any public
transportation facility; or

  (c) Permitting any rubbish, trash, garbage, debri s, or other refuse or solid waste
to be thrown from a vehicle that the person is oper ating. However, this
paragraph does not apply to a person operating a ve hicle transporting
passengers for hire subject to regulation by the In terstate Commerce
Commission or the public Utility Commission of Oreg on, or to a person
operating a school bus described under ORS 801.460. [Ord. 91-35, Sec. 4]

 43.060  EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN DISPOSAL SITES .

 43-10

 Sections 43.056 and 43.057 do not prohibit the ope ration of a disposal site, as defined in
ORS 459.005, for which a permit is required by the Department of Environmental Quality, for
which such a permit has been issued and which is be ing operated and maintained in accordance
with the terms and conditions of such permit. [Ord. 91-35, Sec. 5]

 43-11

 WASTE TIRES

 43.061  CREATION OF A NUISANCE BY ACCUMULATION AND TRANSPORT OF
WASTE TIRES.

 (1)  No person shall knowingly sell or otherwise m ake available to any other person
more than 10 waste tires for the purpose of waste t ire salvage or disposal in Polk County in any
given calendar year unless that other person is a w aste tire permittee under this Chapter or a
franchisee under the Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Code.

 (2)  No person shall knowingly receive more than 1 0 waste tires for the purpose of waste
tire salvage or disposal in Polk County unless that  person is a waste tire permittee under this
Chapter or a franchisee under the Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Code.

 (3)  No person shall knowingly transport or cause to be transported wholly within or to a
destination within Polk County for the purposes of waste tire salvage or disposal, more than 10
waste tires in any given year unless the person rec eiving said tires is a waste tire permittee under
this Chapter or a franchisee under this Ordinance.

 (4)  No person shall accumulate more than 100 wast e tires unless the person has
obtained a waste tire storage site permit for the location where the tires are stored.

 (5)  Businesses which have received a certificate from the Oregon Department of
Revenue as a retail tire dealer in compliance with ORS Chapter 740 Section 25 may accumulate
1000 waste tires prior to obtaining a waste tire storage permit.

 WASTE TIRE STORAGE SITE

 43.065   APPLICATIONS.

 (1) Applications for waste tire permits shall be o n forms provided by the Administrator.
In addition to any information required on the forms, the Administrator may require such additional
information as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this Ordinance. A non-refundable fee
of $60 shall be payable at the time the application is submitted to the Administrator.

  (a)  Applicants shall state the particular use pl anned for the waste tires, the
number of tires required, date use shall be completed, and the source of tires.

  (b)  Applicant shall state specifically the manne r in which waste tires shall be
screened from public view, anchored to ground if applicable.

  (c)  Applicant shall identify any potential vecto r or pest breeding or habitat areas
in the proposed use and the control methods to be utilized in order to avoid
them.

  (d)  Applicant shall provide any other informatio n deemed necessary by the
Administrator.

 43-12

 43.070  REVIEW.

 (1)  All applications shall be subject to review b y the Administrator and the Planning
Director for compliance with County Ordinances. Upo n receipt of a complete application, the
Administrator shall make such inspections as necessary and issue a decision in writing within 60
days. The Administrator shall submit a copy of the written decision to the Board for review and
consent. The effective date of the waste tire permi t shall not precede Board review. The
Administrator shall make a finding on a decision to  allow the application based on the following
criteria:

  (a)  Utility of proposed use.

  (b)  Effect of the proposed use on the esthetics of the surrounding neighborhood.

  (c)  Potential of the proposed use to create vect or or pest breeding and/or habitat
areas.

 (2)  The decision of the Administrator may be appe aled within 30 days from the date of
the decision to the Board.

 43.075.  FAILURE TO COMPLY A NUISANCE.

  Failure to comply with Sections 43.060 to 43.070 constitutes a public nuisance.

  BUILDINGS

43.080  CERTAIN BUILDINGS A NUISANCE.

 The following are classified as public nuisances:

 (1)  All buildings or structures, or portions ther eof, which are determined by the building
official to be dangerous as defined by Section 43.030 (5).

 (2)  Constructing a building without a permit as r equired by the Building Code.

 (3)  Placing a mobile home without a permit.

 (4)  Occupying or changing the use of a building o r structure without occupancy permit.

 (5)  Selling or renting a dwelling that has been u sed as a clandestine drug lab without
providing a written notice to the new owner or renter.

 (6) Making an electrical installation without a pe rmit. [Ord. 94-4, Sec. 9]

 PUBLIC HEALTH

 43.085  INADEQUATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL A NUISANCE.

 The following acts constitute a public nuisance:

 43-13

 (1)  The discharge of raw or partially treated sew age onto the ground surface or into the
waters of the State of Oregon.

 (2)  Placing into use an existing on-site sewage d isposal system without an
Authorization Notice as required by OAR 340-71-205.

 (3)  Installing, replacing, or repairing an on-sit e sewage disposal system without a permit
as required by OAR 340-71-160.

 (4)  Installing, replacing, or repairing an on-sit e sewage disposal system without a
license from the Department of Environmental Qualit y as required by OAR 340-71-600 (1) and
(2). The owner of property who holds a valid permit  for an on-site sewage disposal system is
exempt from this section.

43.87  VECTORS.

The following acts constitute public health nuisances:

(1)  The accumulation of water causing mosquito or other  vector breeding or
proliferation.

(2)  Rat infestation.  [Ord. 04-11]

 ZONING

 43.090   NON-PERMITTED LAND USE A NUISANCE.

 The following acts constitute public nuisances:

(1)  Creating a use that is prohibited.

(2) Creating or changing a use which requires a per mit.

(3)   Expanding a use that is non-conforming.

(4)   Changing to a use which is not permitted.

(5)   Failing to comply with conditions of a permit .

 KENNELS

 43.095  MAINTAINING COMMERCIAL KENNEL WITHOUT A LICENSE.

 The following acts constitute a public nuisance:

(1)  Maintaining a commercial kennel unless a kenne l license has been obtained.

(2)  Maintaining a kennel in violation of state law  or county ordinance, or administrative
rule issued thereunder. [Amended by Ord. 91-11, Sec. 5]

 43-14

 KENNEL LICENSING

 43.100  APPLICATIONS.

 Applications for a commercial kennel shall be on f orms provided by Polk County. In
addition to any information required on the forms, the County may require such additional
information as deemed necessary to ensure compliance with this Ordinance and any other County
ordinance or ORS or Administrative Rule. The applic ation shall not be considered complete until
all information requested has been submitted and a non-refundable fee has been paid. [Amended by
Ord. 91-11, Sec. 6]

 43.105  REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENT.

 (1)  All applications shall be subject to review b y the Dog Control Officer and the
Planning and Environmental Health Departments to ch eck for compliance with other County
ordinances.

 (2)  A commercial kennel license shall not be issu ed in those areas for which the Zoning
Code does not allow commercial kennels.

 (3)  All dogs kept at the commercial kennel over f our months of age shall be currently
vaccinated for rabies.

 (4)  Waste material generated by the dogs shall be  disposed of in a manner that prevents
water pollution and nuisances from odor and flies.

 (5)  The license shall indicate the maximum number  of dogs that may be kept.

 (6) Within 60 days of receipt of a complete applic ation, the County shall issue or deny
the application and shall notify the applicant in writing. [Amended by Ord. 91-11, Sec. 6]

 43.110  SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, FAILURE TO RENEW.

 (1)  If at any time the commercial kennel operator  fails to comply with a provision of
this Ordinance or any other County Ordinance or ORS, the license shall be suspended or revoked.

 (2)  If, at the time of renewal of a commercial ke nnel license, it is determined that the
commercial kennel operator is in violation of any provisions of this Ordinance or any other County
Ordinance or ORS, the license shall not be renewed.

 (3)  If the number of dogs increases above that in dicated on the license, the operator of
the commercial kennel shall apply for an updated license to reflect the number of dogs kept at the
commercial kennel.

 (4)  A commercial kennel license issued under this  Ordinance shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance. The commercial kennel operator is responsible for timely application for
renewal before the expiration date. [Amended by Ord. 91-11, Sec. 6]

 43.115  [Repealed by Ord. 89-13, Sec. 1]

 43-15

 43.116  FEES.

 The Board of Commissioners, by resolution, shall pr escribe fees for commercial kennel
licenses. [Ord. 89-13, Sec. 1; Ord. 91-11, Sec. 6]

 43.120   APPEALS OF DECISION.

  The decision on denial, suspension, revocation, or failure to renew may be appealed to the
Board. An appeal fee of one-half the license fee shall be submitted with the appeal application.

 43.125  EXEMPTIONS.

 The following are exempt from the licensing requir ements only. All other requirements of
Section 43.105 must be complied with:

(1)  A commercial kennel which has obtained a Condi tional Use Permit to operate.

(2)  A non-conforming boarding kennel in existence prior to adoption of this Ordinance.
This does not exempt enlargement of a non-conforming commercial kennel from the Zoning Code.

(3)  Veterinary hospitals or clinics. [Amended by O rd. 91-11, Sec. 6]

  GRACE PERIOD

 43.130  GRACE PERIOD.

  Licenses and permits required under Sections 43.0 65 and 43.095 shall be obtained within
90 days of adoption of this Ordinance.

 INVESTIGATION FEE

 43.135  INVESTIGATION FEE REQUIRED.

 (1) The following investigations of nuisances shal l require the payment of an
investigation fee upon application for permits:

 (a)  Placing into use or installing, replacing, or  repairing an on-site sewage
disposal system without a permit as defined by Sections 43.085 (2) and (3).

 (b)  Beginning construction of a building without a permit.

 (c)  Placing a mobile home without a permit.

 (d)  Changing the use of a building without a chan ge of occupancy permit.

 (e)  Creating or changing a use without a permit a s defined by Section 43.090
(2).

      (f)  Operating as a waste tire storage site o r waste tire carrier without a permit.

 43-16

 (g)   Maintaining a kennel without a license.

 (h) Making an electrical installation without a pe rmit. [Ord. 94-4, Sec. 10]

 43.140  FEES.

 The investigation fee shall be assessed to the vio lator at the actual cost to the County to
conduct the investigation, correspondence and follow-up enforcement prior to the time the violator
applies for the necessary permits. In no event shal l the fee be less than $100. This fee shall be
collected prior to issuing any permit.

 ABATEMENT FUND

 43.145  ABATEMENT FUND.

 (1)  There is hereby created the Environmental Nui sance Fund to be used to pay the
County's cost to abate any nuisance as ordered by the Court or Board.

 (2)  The Board may at any time transfer to the fun d, out of the General Fund, such sums
as it may deem necessary in order to expedite the performance of the work of abatement. Any sum
so transferred shall be deemed a loan and shall be repaid out of the proceeds of the collections as
ordered by the Court or Board.

   APPEALS

 43.150  APPEALS.

 All decisions of the Board under this Chapter shal l be reviewable by the Circuit Court of the
State of Oregon for the County of Polk.

 OTHER PENALTIES AND ABATEMENT METHODS

 43.152   REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION

 In any proceeding to enforce Section 43.056, 43.05 7, or 43.058, a name found on various
items in a deposit of rubbish or other solid waste placed on land or in water in violation thereof
constitutes rebuttable evidence that the person who se name appears on the items has violated
Section 43.056, 43.057, or 43.058. However, the reb uttable presumption created by this section
exists only when a name on items denotes ownership of the items, such as the name of an addressee
on an envelope. [Ord. 91-35, Sec. 7]

 43.155   OTHER ABATEMENT METHODS.

 (1)  Enforcement of this Chapter may be as provide d for in Chapter 50 of the Polk
County Code.

 (2)  In addition to other remedies provided by law  or by this Chapter, the Board may
institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate legal proceedings to temporarily or
permanently enjoin or abate such public nuisance.

 43-17

 (3)  The provisions of this section are in additio n to and not in lieu of penalties described
in Section 43.160.

 43.157   CIVIL PENALTY FOR CERTAIN VIOLATIONS.

 (1) In addition to any other penalty, any person w ho violates any provision of Sections
43.056, 43.057, or 43.058 shall incur a civil penal ty in any amount not to exceed the penalty
amount provided under Section 43.160. The penalty also may include all of the costs incurred by
the county in removing the refuse or offensive subs tance unlawfully placed on property and in
eliminating the effects of such unlawful placement.

 (2) Such civil penalty shall be collected as provi ded under ORS 468.135, except that the
Director of the Community Development Department shall perform the duties provided under ORS
468.135, and recoveries shall be credited to the county treasury. However, action under this section
shall be in lieu of enforcement action under Section 43.160. [Ord. 91-35, Sec. 6]

 43.160   PENALTIES.

 Violation of Sections 43.040 through 43.105 shall be punishable upon conviction by a fine
of not more than $500 for a non-continuing violatio n and a fine of not more than $1,000 for a
continuing offense. These penalties shall be in add ition to any other remedies provided by law to
Polk County.

 43.165   CONSTRUCTION.

 Any finding by any court of competent jurisdiction that any portion of this Chapter is
unconstitutional or invalid shall not invalidate any other portion of this Chapter.