F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 125.doc                        125-1
CHAPTER 125
LIMITED USES
125.005. Purpose
125.010. Temporary Use of Manufactured Home During Construction
125.020. Subdivision or Planned Development Pre-Cut ting and Assembly Facility
125.030. Subdivision or Planned Development Sales O ffice or Development Office
125.060. Fuel Oil Distribution Firms
125.070. Manufactured Home Towing Service Office
125.080. Retail Building Materials Sales Firm
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 125.doc                        125-2
125.005.  PURPOSE.   The purpose of the limited use section is to provide specific requirements
for permitted uses that are considered limited due to their nature and activities.
125.010.  TEMPORARY USE OF MANUFACTURED HOME DURING
CONSTRUCTION.   The building official may grant a temporary permit for the use and
occupancy of a manufactured home by the applicant for the length of time that the homeowner is
constructing a house on the same premises on which the manufactured home is to be located.
Such permit shall be granted for a period of one (1) year, and may be renewed for a maximum
period of one (1) additional year, by the County Building Official.  As a condition of granting
such a permit, the Building Official shall require that an agreement be signed by the applicant
stating that the applicant is fully aware of the terms of such temporary use.
Any additional extension of time beyond that allowed by this section shall be at the sole
discretion of the Hearings Officer after proceedings are held in the same manner as provided for
variances.  Such requests shall be considered as requests for a full  variance from the terms of the
Zoning Ordinance.  [Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
125.020.  SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PRE-CUTTING AND
ASSEMBLY FACILITY.   Subdivision or planned development pre-cutting and assembly
facility; including permanent structures which are to be converted to a permitted use, temporary
building and structures and related outdoor storage area, may be permitted by the Building
Official, provided:
(A) The Building Official issues a permit for such specific purpose;
(B) That at least 80 percent of the production of s aid facility is used within the
development or subdivision;
(C) The facility has a finished appearing exterior and the site is maintained in a neat and
trim condition and all portions of said facility are screened from all residential and
commercial areas with such landscaping as may be necessary;
(D) That all signs not exceed 32 square feet total combined area when attached to a
building or 24 square feet when freestanding;
(E) That the term of such permit for each approved planned development phase or
recorded addition to a subdivision shall not exceed three (3) years for the permit.
The permit may be renewed once for an additional two (2) year period.  Additional
periods may be granted by the Hearings Officer under the variance procedure when
the applicant can show good cause for such delay and such site is not detrimental to
the surrounding area.
(F) When necessary, due to a complaint or by reason  of closeness to residential uses, the
Building Official may limit the hours of operation of said facility.
(G) Failure to continuously comply with these condi tions and any conditions on the
permit shall automatically void the permit.
(H) When the development or subdivision is complete , the property shall be restored to
its residential condition and use.  [Amended by Ordinance #88-21, dated November 30, 1988.]
125.030.  SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT SALES OFFICE OR
DEVELOPMENT OFFICE.   Subdivision or planned development sales office and/or
development management office in a new dwelling, a part of a dwelling, or separate building,
manufactured home or as a part of a pre-cutting and assembly facility, may be permitted by the
Building Official provided:
(A) The Building Official issues a permit for such specific purpose.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 125.doc                        125-3
(B) That the principal use of such office is for th e sale and/or development of lots,
parcels and structures in the development or subdivision.
(C) The office has a finished exterior and the site  is landscaped and maintained in a neat
and trim condition.
(D) That all signs not exceed 32 square feet total combined area when attached to a
building or 24 square feet when freestanding.
(E) That the term of such permit for each approved planned development phase or
recorded addition to a subdivision shall not exceed three (3) years for the permit. The
permit may be renewed one for an additional two (2) year period.  The office may
remain on one site if it is reasonably central and all of the sites in the immediate
vicinity have not been sold.  Additional periods may be granted by the Hearings
Officer under the variance procedure when the applicant can show good cause for
such delay and such site is not detrimental to the area.
(F) When necessary, due to a complaint or other sig nificant reason, the Building Official
may limit the hours of operation.
(G) Failure to continuously comply with these condi tions and any conditions on the
permit shall automatically void the permit.
(H) When the development or subdivision is complete , the property shall be restored to
its residential conditional and use.
125.060.  FUEL OIL DISTRIBUTION FIRMS.
A fuel oil distribution firm may be permitted by the Planning Director provided:
(A) All fuel oil and motor fuels are stored in an u nderground location.
(B) Storage of fuel oil and motor fuels shall confo rm to the all applicable environmental
and construction standards of the County and State.  The applicant shall submit
copies of all applicable local and State permit(s) to the Planning Director prior to
storing such materials on site.
(C) All vehicles of the firm which are parked overn ight on the premises are kept wholly
within a completely enclosed building.
(D) All driveways, parking and boarding areas are p aved with asphalt or concrete
surfacing and which areas are adequately graded and drained.
(E) The storage of all merchandise, materials, equi pment and accessories is consistently
and continuously maintained wholly within a completely enclosed building.
(F) The sales and services of any furnaces may be c onducted only as an incidental and
secondary use, provided further that there is no sheet metal shop operated in
connection therewith.
(G) That there be a yard three (3) feet  in depth a djacent to any residential area or CO
zone, which yard shall be contained with a compact evergreen hedge, planted with
material at least three (3) feet in height and which shall be capable of attaining a
height of at least six (6) feet , which hedge shall be maintained in a neat condition.
125.070.  MANUFACTURED HOME TOWING SERVICE OFFICE.
A manufactured home towing service office may be permitted by the Planning Director provided:
(A) Not more than four (4) manufactured homes and/o r the towing tractors remain for
more than 48 hours at any one time on the site.
(B) All portions of the property which are to be us ed for the parking of automobiles and
trucks and manufactured homes are paved.
F:\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\12-09-09 to current\CHAPTER 125.doc                        125-4
(C) A permit and approval has been obtained from th e Polk County Director of Public
Works regarding the number, size of driveways and the direction of ingress and
egress to each driveway.
(D) No manufactured home or trailer is stored for a ny purpose on this site.
(E) The office may be a manufactured unit provided that said manufactured unit meets
the requirements of the County Building Official.  That there be no operation of this
activity during darkness or movement of units on holidays and weekends.  That there
will be no repair or service of trucks on this property.
(F) There will be no repair or service of trailers or manufactured homes on this site.
125.080.  RETAIL BUILDING MATERIALS SALES FIRM.
A retail building materials sales firm may be permitted by the Planning Director provided:
(A) All sales are at retail to the general public.
(B) All activities, including storage, are conducte d wholly within an enclosed building.
(C) Loading and unloading operations are conducted through those sides of the building
which are not abutting, adjacent to or across a street from any residential or CO zone.
(D) All parking and loading areas are paved with an  asphaltic or comparable permanent
surface.
(E) All parking, loading and yard areas are continu ously maintained in a neat and clean
manner.
(F) Storage of merchandise or warehousing of mercha ndise is limited to that amount and
kind which will be sold through the retail sales at the site of such storage.
(G) The County Building Division issue a "Certifica te of Occupancy" prior to use of the
building and site, after determining that the conditions set forth herein are fully
satisfied.  In the event such conditions are not continuously met, the Certificate of
Occupancy shall be subject to revocation upon 30 days notice.