CHAPTER 94

 RESOURCE USE PROTECTION

 94.100  SHORT TITLE

 This Ordinance may be cited as the Polk County Resource Use Protection Ordinance.

 (1)  It is the purpose of this code sec tion to protect resource-based economically
productive activities of Polk County in order to assure the continued health, safety, and prosperity of
its residents. Resource uses sometimes offend, a nnoy, interfere with, or otherwise affect others
located on or near resource lands. Polk County ha s concluded that persons located on or near
resource lands must accept the conditions commonly associated with accepted resource uses.

 (2) This code section is intended to limit the availability of remedies based on nuisance
or trespass, complaint procedures, rights of action and claims for relief over which Polk County has
jurisdiction, when they otherwise would either have an adverse impact on resource uses which Polk
County seeks to protect, or would impair full use of the resource base within Polk County.

 94.120 DEFINITIONS

 As used in PCC 94.100-94.180:

 (1) "Facility" means any real or personal property, including appurtenances thereto and
fixtures thereon, associated with a given use.

 (2) "Farming practice" means the cultivati on, growing, harvesting, processing, or selling
of plants or animals of any kind, which lawfully may be grown, possessed, and sold, including but
not limited to fish, livestock, poultry, grapes, Christmas trees, and nursery stock.

 (3) "Forest practice" has the meaning given that term by ORS 527.620.

 (4) "Nonresource use" means any facility, activity, or other use of land which does not
constitute a resource use, including but not limite d to residential use, and also including any
aggregate mining use which is not conducted in accordance with a program complying with Goal 5.

 (5) "Resource use" means any current or future generally accepted aggregate mining,
farming, ranching, or forest practice or facility conducted in compliance with applicable Polk
County Land Use Ordinances.

 (6) "Generally accepted" means either:

  (a) A practice or facility which is conducted or used in compliance with
applicable federal and state laws; or

  (b) If there is no applicable federal or state law, a practice or facility which an
average person in Polk County who is  a grower or producer regularly
involved in the same type of resource use would reasonably expect to occur
or exist in a truly rural setting. Th e Polk County Board of Commissioners

 94-1
m
ay, as it deems necessary, establish resource user peer review boards
consisting of five persons who regularly are involved in a resource use within
the county, three of whom regularly are involved in the same type of resource
use in question, to advise the Commission as to generally accepted practices
or facilities with respect to that resource use.

 (7) "Resource use" does not include:

  (a) The willful growing of unlawful, in fested, infected, or diseased plants or
animals.

  (b) Trespass which involves actual physical intrusion onto the property of
another by a person or by a person's animals.

 94.130 PROTECTING RESOURCE USES OUTSIDE UGB

 (1)  No resource use occurring outside an  urban growth boundary (UGB) shall be
declared to be a public or private nuisance or trespass, or support any complaint procedure, or give
rise to a claim for relief in favor of, or to protect the interests of, nonresource uses or any persons or
property associated therewith, to the extent that such right, proceeding or claim would arise under an
ordinance or the inherent authority of Polk County.

 (2) This section applies regardless of:

  (a) The location of the purportedly affected nonresource use.

  (b) Whether the nonresource use purportedly affected existed before or after the
occurrence of the resource use.

  (c) Whether the resource use or nonr esource use has undergone any change or
interruption.

  (d) Whether the resource use or nonresource use is located inside or outside an
area designated as secondary resource lands.

 94.140 PROTECTING RESOURCE USES WITHIN UGB

 (1)  No resource use occurring within an ur ban growth boundary (UGB) shall be declared
to be a public or private nuisance or trespass, or support any complaint procedure, or give rise to a
claim for relief in favor if, or to protect the interests of, nonresource uses or any persons or property
associated therewith, to the extent that such  right, proceeding, or claim would arise under an
ordinance or the inherent authority of Polk County.

 (2) This section applies:

  (a) Regardless of the location of the purportedly affected nonresource use.

  (b) Only if the resource use predated the purportedly affected nonresource use.

 94-2

 94-3

  (c) Only if the resource use has not si gnificantly increased in size or intensity
after (A) the effective date of this Ordinance, or (B) the date on which the
applicable urban growth boundary is changed to include the subject resource
use within its limits, whichever date is  later. However, if the change is
mandated by law, this section shall apply.

 94.150 CHANGE IN UGB

 To the extent permissible under State law, if an urban growth boundary (UGB) is changed in
such a way as to place a resource use either inside or outside such boundary, PCC 94.130 applies
with respect to any conflict between a resource use and nonresource use.

 94.160 LAND USE DECISIONS

 The fact that Polk County's comprehensive plan, zoning ordinances, and land use decisions
may allow the siting, development, or support of any particular use does not negate the provisions of
this code section intended to protect a resource use.

 94.170 COMPLAINTS BY NONRESOURCE USERS

 Any persons engaged in a nonresource use are deemed on notice that Polk County will not
act on complaints involving a resource use protected under this code section, wherever located, so
long as such resource use complies with applicable provisions of federal and state laws and this code
section.

 94.180 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE

 If any portion of this code section is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall apply only with respect to the specific portion held invalid by the decision. It is the
intent of Polk County that the remaining portions of this code section continue in full force and
effect.

Note: This ordinance was not adopted with code numbers or references. These have been
supplied by Legal Counsel. Source:  Ordinance No. 92-36.