46-1

 CHAPTER 46  1990

 ACCELERATED FORECLOSURES

 46.010  TITLE.

 This Chapter shall be known as the Polk County Tax Foreclosure Redemption Forfeiture
Ordinance. [ Ord. 90-7, Sec. 1]

 46.020  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.

 (1) Properties foreclosed for delinquent taxe s are not deeded to the County for two years
after entry of the foreclosure decree. During this period the property may be redeemed upon
payment of delinquent taxes, interest, and penalties.

 (2) During the two-year redemption period, many properties remain vacant or
undeveloped causing significant deterioration and loss of value, as well as contributing to decline of
neighborhoods, discouraging investment, and a ttracting nuisances through accumulation of
discarded material, occupancy by unauthorized persons, and establishment of criminal enterprises.

 (3) The Legislative Assembly has enacted ORS 312.122, which authorizes counties to
adopt ordinances to accelerate the two-year redemption period for tax foreclosed properties subject
to abandonment or waste, and to require the Tax Collector to deed such property to counties, thus
permitting counties to preserve the value of tax- foreclosed property and to protect community
interests. [Ord. 90-7, Sec. 2]

 46.030  DEFINITIONS.

 For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms are defined:

 (1) Abandonment:  When property has not been occupied for a period of six consecutive
months by the owner, anyone authorized by the owner, or any entity appearing in the records of the
County to have a lien or other interest in the property.

 (2) Board:   The Polk County Board of Commissioners.

 (3) Hearings Officer:  Any person designated by the Bo ard to hold hearings in the
County.

 (4) Tax Collector:  The Polk County Tax Collector, as designated by the Board.

 (5) Waste:  The destruction, material alteration, or deterioration of land or improvements
resulting in or threatening to result in substantial loss of property value, caused directly by the owner
or person rightfully in possession of the property or permitted to be done by others through failure to
supervise the property. [Ord. 90-7, Sec. 3]

 46.040  ACCELERATION OF REDEMPTION PERIOD.

 (1) Subject to hearing as provided in this  Chapter, the owner and any person or entity

 46-2
that appears in the records of the County to have a lien or other interest in tax-foreclosed property
ordered sold to the County pursuant to ORS 312.100 shall forfeit any right of redemption in the
property upon execution of a deed by the Tax Collector conveying the property to the County 30
days after the Board has declared such right forfeited.

 (2) Upon determining that any tax-foreclos ed property ordered sold to the County may
be subject to waste or abandonment, the Board shall direct the Hearings Officer to conduct a hearing
to determine whether the property should be deeded to the County pursuant to this Chapter. The
Hearings Officer shall perform all acts necessary to ensure an adequate and complete hearing is
provided. [Ord. 90-7, Sec. 4]

 46.050  NOTICE.

 (1) Not less than 30 days prior to the h earing, the Hearings Officer shall notify the
owner, any person, or entity that then appears in  the records of the County as defined in ORS
312.126 (6) to have a lien or other interest in the property subject to hearing, and the occupants of
the property, by certified mail of the following:

  (a) The date, time, and place of hearing;

  (b) The date of the judgment and decree entered pursuant to ORS 312.100;

  (c) The normal date of expiration of the period of redemption under ORS
312.120;

  (d) A warning that a determination that the property suffers waste or
abandonment will result in forfeiture of the remaining redemption period and
issuance of a deed to the County follo wing expiration of 30 days after the
date the Board makes such determina tion, and that all rights of effected
persons will be forfeit forever unless the property is redeemed within that 30-
day period;

  (e) The description of the property and its tax account number; and

  (f) The name of the owner as it appears on the latest tax roll.

 (2) The notice required by this section shall be addressed in the following manner, as
appropriate:

  (a) To an owner, to the owner or owne rs, as reflected in the County records, at
the true and correct address of the owner as appearing on the instrument of
conveyance under ORS 93.260, as furnished under ORS 311.555, or as
otherwise ascertained pursuant to ORS 311.560.

(b) To a lien holder or entity other than the owner having or appearing to have a
lien or other interest in the property, to an address the Hearings Officer
knows or, after reasonable inquiry, has reason to believe will most likely
result in receipt of actual notice. If the lien holder is a corporation or limited
partnership, notice may be mailed to its registered agent or last registered

 46-3
office as shown in the records on file with the State Corporation
Commissioner. If the corporation or limited partnership is not registered in
this state, notice may then be sent to the principal office or place of business
of the corporation or limited partnership.

  (c) To the occupants by first-cla ss mail addressed to "Occupants,” and by
posting the property. [Ord. 90-7, Sec. 5]

 46.060  CONDUCT OF HEARING.

 The hearing provided for in this Chapter sha ll be conducted in a manner calculated to permit
full opportunity for the parties to present and cha llenge evidence and for the receipt of evidence
without strict observance of formal evidentiary rules, to the end that the Hearings Officer may have
sufficient basis on which to recommend to the Board whether forfeiture is appropriate. Parties to the
hearing may appear through a representative, so long as written authorization for anyone not an
attorney to represent the owner or lien holder is included in the record. Electronic recording of the
proceeding shall be made and preserved for 90 days after the date of the Board's decision under
Section 46.070. [Ord. 90-7, Sec. 6]

 46.070  ACTION BY THE BOARD.

 (1) Upon a finding by the Hearings Officer that property is subjected to waste or
abandonment justifying forfeiture of the remaining redemption period, the Hearings Officer shall
communicate the finding to the Board for its determination. No further evidence shall be taken by
the Board, but it may remand to the Hearings Officer should it require further investigation.

 (2) If the Board adopts the recommendation of  the Hearings Officer, it may then declare
the redemption period forfeited and direct the Tax Collector to deed the property to the County not
earlier than 30 days after the date of its declaration. Notice of the Board's order shall be given in the
same manner provided for notice of the heari ng in Section 46.050. During this 30-day period the
property may be redeemed by the affected parties. [Ord. 90-7, Sec. 7]

 46.080  EXECUTION OF DEED; REMOVAL OF OCCUPANTS.

 (1) If the property is not redeemed within 30 days after the Board acts, the Tax Collector
shall execute a deed terminating all redemp tion rights and canceling all taxes and special
assessments.

 (2) Any persons still in possession of the pr operty after issuance of a deed under this
section may be removed as provided in ORS 105.105 to 105.165. [ Ord. 90-7, Sec. 8]

 46.090  REVIEW.

 Review of the Board's decision under S ection 46.070 shall lie only by Writ of Review,
pursuant to ORS Chapter 34. [ Ord. 90-7, Sec. 9]