Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 1

CHAPTER 15

PUBLIC CONTRACTS AND PURCHASING

15.105  ADMINISTRATION

(1)  Enabling Clause. Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 shall be binding upon all officers and
employees of Polk County and shall govern all purchasing and contracting by officers and employees
of Polk County. The Polk County Board of Commission ers may delegate all powers or duties given
or assigned by this chapter to employees, officials or agents through a Board order.

(2)  Local Contract Review Board. The Polk County Board of Commissioners shall act as the Local
Contract Review Board pursuant to the authority granted to that Board by ORS Chapter 279A.060.

(3)  Preference to Polk County Goods and Services. For p urposes of awarding a public contract, a
department shall give preference to goods or servic es that have been manufactured or produced in
Polk County and immediate surrounding area if price, fitness, availability and quality are otherwise
equal.

(4)  Attorney General’s Rules Inapplicable.

(a)  The Attorney General's Model Contract Rules adopted  under ORS 279A.065 do not apply to
Polk County unless specifically referenced.

(b)  Unless otherwise specified, this chapter shall also contain the procurement rules applicable to
all County departments and divisions.

(5)  Contract Signing Authority. Except as set out in this section, the Board of Commissioners, shall have
the authority to enter into contracts on behalf of the department and the County.

(a) Notwithstanding the above, for contracts not to  exceed $150,000.00, the County Administrative
Officer and the Director of Public Works may enter into and sign contracts on behalf of the
County.

(b)  Notwithstanding the above, for contracts not to exceed $25,000.00 all elected heads of
departments, and the directors of Administrative Services, Community Development, Behavioral
Health, Community Corrections, Family and Community  Outreach and Information Services
may enter into and sign contract on behalf of the County.

(c)  All contracts executed pursuant to subsection (a) and (b) must be provided to the appropriate
person within the Commissioner’s Office.

(6)  All Contracts in Writing. All contracts to which Polk County is a party shall be in writing.

15.110  DEFINITIONS

As used in Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 1 5:

(1)  "Bid" means a competitive offer, binding on the Bidder and submitted in response to an Invitation to
Bid.

(2)  "Board" means the Board of Commissioners of Polk Co unty, acting as the local Contract Review
Board.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 2

(3)  “Commissioners" means the Polk County Board of Comm issioners.

(4)  "Competitive Bid" means issuing an invitation to bid following the formal process for advertising, bid
and bid opening.

(5)  "Competitive Process" means the solicitation of competitive offers which follow the formal process
for advertising, request for proposal, bid and bid opening, and applicable rules of the Board.

(6)  "Competitive Quotes" means the solicitation of offers from competing vendors by advertisement or a
request to vendors to make an offer. The solicitation and the offer may be in writing or oral.  Oral
quotes shall be reduced to writing in the procureme nt file.

(7)  "County" means the Polk County Board of Commissione rs or its public contracting officer(s).

(8)  “Department” means a Polk County department such as , but not limited to, the Public Works
Department or the Community Development Department.

(9)  "Electronic Advertisement" means advertisement of a n Offer available electronically over the internet
via (i) the World Wide Web, or (ii) telnet, provide d the County maintains an internet World Wide
Web site that provides explicit instructions how an Entity can access the advertisement through the
internet via a telnet application. The County may maintain the World Wide Web site directly or
through any third party service provider.

(10)  "Emergency" means that a substantial risk of loss, damage, interruption of services, or threat to the
public health or safety has arisen from circumstances that could not have been reasonably foreseen.

(11)  “Informal procurement” means any form of procuremen t outlined in this chapter that is not an
invitation to bid or request for proposals.

(12)  "Invitation to Bid" means the solicitation of competitive offers in which specification, price and
delivery (or project completion) will be the predominant award criteria.

(13)  ”Material and Service Contract” means an agreement in which the vendor agrees to supply all the
purchaser's requirements that arise for an item or items within a specified time period. Also referred
to as a Price Agreement.

(14)  "Offer" means a bid, proposal, or quotation.

(15)  "Offeror" means a person or firm submitting an offer.

(16)  "Personal Property" means everything subject to ownership which is not real property, and which has
exchangeable value.

(17)  "Personal Services Contracts" means a contract that calls for specialized skills, knowledge and
resources in the application of technical or scientific expertise, or the exercise of professional, ar tistic
or management discretion or judgment. Qualifications and performance history, expertise, knowledge
and creativity, and the ability to exercise sound professional judgment are typically the primary
considerations when selecting a Personal Services Contractor, with price being secondary.

(18)  "Proposal" means a competitive Offer, binding on the Proposer and submitted in response to a
Request for Proposals.

(19)  "Public Agency or Public Contracting Agency" means any agency of the federal government, State of
Oregon or any political subdivision thereof authorized by law to enter into public contracts,
municipality and any other public body created by intergovernmental agreement.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 3

(20)  “Public Contract” means any purchase, lease or sale  by a public agency of personal property, public
improvements or services other than agreements whic h are for personal services.

(21)  "Public Contracting Officer” means the person or pe rsons designated by the Commissioners to
negotiate public contracts for the County.
(22)  "Public Improvement" means a project for construction, reconstruction or major renovation on real
property by or for a public agency. "Public Improvement" does not include emergency work, minor
alterations, ordinary repair or maintenance necessary in order to preserve a public improvement.

(23)  "Request for Proposal" means a solicitation of competitive proposals, or offers, to be used as a basis
for making an acquisition, or entering into a contract when specification and price will not necessarily
be the predominant award criteria.

(24)  "Service Contract” means a contract that calls prim arily for a contractor's time and effort rather tha n
for an end product

(25)  "Solicitation document" means an invitation for bid s, a request for proposals, or a written request for
quotations.

(26)  "Telecommunications Systems" mean devices, components, facilities and applications that provide
telecommunications services for the County and enable the aggregation and transmission of voice,
video or data between and among County users. Telecommunications Systems may include gateway
devices used to connect to private telecommunications networks or the Internet

15.115 PROCUREMENT METHODS

(1)  Competitive Bids; Exemptions. All contracts shall be based upon competitive bids or proposals
except the following:

(a)  Contracts otherwise allowed or required in ORS 279A.025 (Application of Contracting Code)
279A.100 (Affirmative Action), , 279A.125 (Recycled  Materials), 279A.128 (In-State
Preference),

(b)  Contracts that are for personal services. Such contracts may include incidental materials such
as written reports or opinions, architectural or engineering renderings, and other supplemental
materials required for providing the services.

(c)  Contracts that may be procured by an alternative method based on ORS 279A.050; 279A.055
and 279A.070.

(d)  The county may, in its discretion, let public contracts not to exceed $150,000 for the purchase
of goods, materials, supplies, and services or for trade related projects, i.e., construction,
maintenance, repair, or similar labor and materials contracts without competitive bidding, if
the county has determined that the awarding of the contract without competitive bidding will
result in cost savings and the contract is for a single project, and is not a component of or
related to any other project.

(2)  Exemptions for Contracts for Goods, Services, Construction and Maintenance Under Certain Dollar
Amounts.

(a)  When the amount of the contract does not exceed $15 ,000, the County may, but is not required
to, obtain competitive quotes.

(b)  When the amount of the contract is more than $15,00 0, but less than $150,000, , the County
shall obtain a minimum of three competitive quotes. The County shall keep a written record of

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 4

the source and amount of the quotes received. If three quotes are not available, a lesser number
will suffice provided that a written record is made of the effort to obtain the quotes.

(c)  When the contract is for a "public improvement" as defined in PCCC 15.110(23) or for "public
works" as defined in ORS 279C.800, and the contract price exceeds $50,000, the County and
the contractor shall comply with:

(i)  The prevailing wage provisions of ORS 279C.800 to 2 79C.870, when applicable;

(ii)  The performance bond requirements of PCCC 15.115(21 ) and ORS 279C.380;

(iii)  The contractor registration requirements of ORS ch. 701; and

(iv)  Any other law applicable to such a contract.

(3)  Material and Service Contracts.

(a)  Material and service contracts may be entered into without competitive bidding when it is in
the best interests of the County to do so. The County may enter into material and service
contracts whereby it is agreed to purchase goods or services for an anticipated need at a
predetermined price provided the term of the contract, including renewals, does not exceed
five years or $150,000.

(b)  The County may also use the material and service contract entered into by another public
contracting agency when a formal inter-agency agree ment exists between the two agencies.

(4)  Equipment Repair and Overhaul. Contracts for equipment repair or overhaul may be let without
competitive bidding, if:

(a)  Service and/or parts required are unknown and the cost cannot be determined without
extensive preliminary dismantling or testing; or

(b)  Service and/or parts required are for sophisticated equipment for which specially trained
personnel are required and such personnel are available from only one source.

(5)  Emergency Contracts.

(a)  The county may, at its discretion, let public contracts without formal competitive bidding if an
emergency exists and requires prompt execution of a contract to remedy or respond to the
condition.

(b)  The Commission may adopt a resolution indicating the existence of the emergency and stating
with specificity the emergency conditions necessitating the prompt execution of the contract.

(c)  Any contract awarded under this exemption shall be awarded within 60 days following
declaration of the emergency unless an extension is granted by the Board, but such declaration
shall not be required prior to entering into the contract depending on the circumstances of the
emergency.

(d)  The Commissioners may waive requirements for perfor mance and payment bonds in the event
of an emergency.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 5

15.120 SOLICITATION PROCESS

(1)  Solicitation Methods.

(a)  Request for Proposal. The county may, at its discretion, use request for proposal competitive
procurement methods subject to the following conditions:

(i)  Contractual requirements shall be stated clearly in the solicitation document.

(ii)  Evaluation criteria to be applied in awarding the contract and the role of an evaluation
committee (if any) shall be stated clearly in the solicitation document. Criteria used to
identify the proposal that best meets the county needs may include but are not limited to
cost, quality, service, compatibility, product reliability, operating efficiency and
expansion potential.

(iii)  The solicitation document shall clearly state all complaint processes and remedies
available.

(iv)  The solicitation document shall state the provisions made for vendors to comment on
any specifications which they feel limit competition.

(2)  Invitation to Bid. The County may use an Invitation to Bid if the County believes it will receive
optimal value by selecting the lowest priced offer that meets the technical requirements of the
County's specifications.

(3)  Negotiations.

(a)  When All Bids Exceed Estimate. The County may negotiate with the lowest responsible bidder
or proposer submitting a responsive bid if all responsive bids from responsible bidders or
proposers exceed the County's cost estimate. If a written cost estimate was not prepared prior
to bidding, the amount budgeted for the public contract shall be deemed the cost estimate for
the purposes of this subsection.

(b)  Other Bids. The County may negotiate with a propose r to clarify its quote, bid or proposal or
to effect modifications that will make the quote, bid or proposal acceptable or more
advantageous to the County.

(4)  Prequalification.

(a)  The County, in its sole discretion, may require bidders or proposers to prequalify before being
eligible to submit bids or proposals for a class of public contracts or for a particular public
contract. The method used to prequalify bidders or proposers shall be determined by the
Department letting the contract.

(b)  The County shall, in response to the receipt of a prequalification application submitted under
this section, notify the prospective bidder or prop oser whether the prospective bidder or
proposer is qualified based on the standards identified by the County and ORS 279B.110(2),
the type and nature of contracts that the prospective bidder or proposer is qualified to compete
for and the time period for which the prequalification is valid. If the County does not
prequalify a prospective bidder or proposer as to a ny contracts covered by the prequalification
process, the notice must specify which of the Count y’s criteria and/or standards of
responsibility listed in ORS 279B.110(2) the prospe ctive bidder or proposer failed to meet.
Unless the reasons are specified, the prospective b idder or proposer shall be deemed to have
been prequalified in accordance with the application.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 6

(c)  Disqualification. Disqualification of a previously prequalified bidder or proposer shall be in
accordance with this chapter and the provisions of ORS 279B.120(3) regarding
prequalification and disqualification.

(5)  Product Prequalification.

(a)  When it is impractical to create or reproduce speci fic design or performance specifications for
a type of product to be purchased, the county may specify a list of approved or qualified
products by reference to a particular manufacturer or seller in accordance with the following
product prequalification procedure:

(i)  The County shall make reasonable efforts to notify all known manufacturers and
vendors of competitive products of its intention to accept applications for inclusion in
its list of prequalified products. Notification shall include advertisement in a trade
journal of state-wide distribution when possible. In lieu of advertising, the County may
notify vendors and manufacturers appearing on the appropriate list maintained by the
State of Oregon.

(ii)  The County shall permit application for prequalification of similar products up to 15
days prior to advertisement for bids on the product .

(b)  If an application for inclusion in a list of prequalified products is denied, or an existing
prequalification revoked, the County shall notify the applicant in writing. The applicant may
appeal to the local Contract Review Board.

(6)  Life Cycle Costing. In determining the lowest responsible bidder in the award of a contract, the
county may use the concept of life cycle costing. As used in this section, life cycle costing means
determining the cost of a product for its useful life.

(a)  Prior to the time of writing specifications for the product, the public contracting agency shall
identify those factors which will have cost implications over the life of the product.

(b)  The Invitation to Bid shall set out clearly the factors and methodology to be used in life cycle
cost adjustments.

(c)  At or after the  bid opening, the results of life cycle costing adjustments shall be applied to the
base bid, and the bidder whose total bid results in the lowest ownership cost, taking into
account the life cycle costing adjustments, shall be considered the lowest responsible bidder.

(7)  Advertisement. Advertisements of invitations for bids and requests for proposals shall be published
as set forth herein, and any other time the County concludes that advertisement is desirable.

(a)  An advertisement, other than for a public improvement contract estimated to cost more than
$150,000, shall be deemed sufficient for the purposes of this chapter if it appears once in the
Itemizer Observer or the Statesman Journal, or, if the Local Contract Review Board has
authorized electronic advertisement, it appears electronically in a commercially reasonable
manner. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent a department from satisfying the
advertisement requirements of applicable statutes a nd this ordinance by publishing an
advertisement once in any newspaper of general circulation in the Polk County metropolitan
area.

(b)  An advertisement for a public improvement contract estimated to cost more than $150,000
shall be deemed sufficient if it appears once in the Daily Journal of Commerce or a similar
trade newspaper of general statewide circulation and once in the Itemizer Observer or
Statesman Journal.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 7

(c)  A department may publish an advertisement more than once, and in addition to publication
designed to satisfy the requirements of applicable statutes and this ordinance, may publish one
or more advertisements in any local, regional, or national publication deemed by the
department to be appropriate for the particular pro curement.

(d)  A department shall give public notice at least seven (7) days before the solicitation closing
date.

(8)  Contents of Advertisements. All advertisements for offers or proposals shall state:

(a)  The date after which bids will not be received, which shall not be less than seven (7) days after
the date of the last publication of the advertisement;

(b)  The date that prequalification applications must be filed if applicable and the class or classes
of work for which bidders must be prequalified if prequalification is a requirement;

(c)  A general description of the work to be done or the material or things to be purchased;

(d)  The office where the specifications for the work, material or things may be reviewed;

(e)  The name, title and address of the person designated to receive offers or proposals;

(f)  The date, time and place that the County will open the bids;

(g)  If the contract is for a public work subject to ORS 279C.800 to 279C.870 or the Davis- Bacon
Act (40 U. S. C. 276a).

(9)  Requirements for Bid or Proposal Documents and Bids ; Disclosure of First-tier Subcontractors.

(a)  Bid or proposal documents for a public contract shall, at a minimum, include:

(i)  A general description of the work to be done or the material or things to be purchased
and performance expectations, including a statement that the contractor shall meet the
highest applicable industry or business standards in providing the goods or services;

(ii)  The office where the specifications for the work, material or things may be reviewed;

(iii)  The date, time and place that prequalification applications must be filed if applicable
and the class or classes of work for which bidders or proposers must be prequalified if
prequalification is a requirement;

(iv)  The date and time after which bids or proposals will not be received, which shall be at
least seven (7) days after the date of the last publication of the advertisement;

(v)  The place, name and title of the person designated for receipt of bids or proposals;

(vi)  The date, time and place that the County will open the bids;

(vii)  A statement that each bid or proposal must identify whether the bidder is a resident
bidder, as defined in ORS 279A.120.

(viii)  A description of the selection criteria to be utilized in evaluating bids or proposals and
determining the successful bid or proposal.

(ix)  A statement that the County may reject any bid not in compliance with all prescribed
bidding procedures and requirements, and may reject for good cause any or all bids or
proposals upon a finding of the County that it is in the public interest to do so;

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 8

(x)  All contractual terms and conditions applicable to the bid or proposal and consequences
for failure to perform the work to industry or business standards;

(b)  All bids or proposals made to the County shall be:

(i)  In writing;

(ii)  Filed with the person designated for receipt of bid s; and

(iii)  Bids, but not proposals, opened at the time designated in the advertisement.

(c)  In addition to the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, bid or proposal
documents for public improvement contracts shall also include:

(i)  A statement that, if the contract is for a public work subject to ORS 279C.800 to
279C.870 or the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a), n o bid will be received or
considered unless the bid or proposal contains a statement that the provisions of ORS
279C.838 or 279C.840 or 40 U.S.C. 276a are to be co mplied with;

(ii)  Information addressing whether a contractor or subc ontractor must be licensed under
ORS 468A.720;

(iii)  A statement that no bid or proposal for a public improvement contract shall be received
or considered unless the bidder or proposers are licensed by the Construction
Contractors Board or the State Landscape Contractors Board;

(iv)  A statement that every public improvement contract shall contain a condition that the
contractor shall:

(A)  Make payment promptly, as due, to all persons suppl ying to such contractor
labor or material for the performance of the work provided for in such contract.

(B)  Pay all contributions or amounts due the Industrial Accident Fund from such
contractor or subcontractor incurred in the performance of the contract.

(C)  Not permit any lien or claim to be filed or prosecuted against the state, county,
school district, municipality, municipal corporation or subdivision thereof, on
account of any labor or material furnished.

(D)  Pay to the Department of Revenue all sums withheld from employees pursuant to
ORS 316.167.

(v)  In addition to the conditions specified in subsection (a) of this section, every public
improvement contract shall contain a condition that the contractor shall demonstrate
that an employee drug testing program is in place.

(vi)  Within two working hours after the date and time of the deadline when the bids or
proposals are due for a public improvement, a bidder shall submit to the County a
disclosure of any first-tier subcontractor that:

(A)  Will be furnishing labor or labor and materials in connection with the public
improvement; and

(B)  Whose contract value is equal to or greater than five percent of the total project
bid or $15,000, whichever is larger, or $350,000, r egardless of the percentage of
the total project bid.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 9

(vii)  The disclosure of first-tier subcontractors shall include:

(A)  The name of each subcontractor;

(B)  The category of work each subcontractor will perfor m; and

(C)  The dollar value of each subcontract.

(viii)  For each contract to which subsections (c) (vi) and (vii) applies, the County shall
designate a deadline for submission of bids or prop osals that has a date on a Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and a time between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m., except that this
subsection does not apply to public contracts for maintenance or construction of
highways, bridges or other transportation facilities.

(ix)  Subsections (c) (vi) and (vii) shall apply only to public improvements with an estimated
contract value of more than $100,000.

(10)  Offer Preparation.

(a)  Instructions. An offeror or proposer shall submit and sign its offer or proposal in accordance
with the solicitation document. An offeror or propo ser shall initial any alteration or erasure to
an offer or proposal, if any, in accordance with the solicitation document.

(b)  Documents. An offeror or proposer shall provide the County with all documents and
descriptive literature required under the solicitation document.

(11)  Method of Submitting Offers.

(a)  Receipt. Bids must be submitted in writing. The County shall not open the offeror
modification, but shall date and time stamp the offer and store it in a secure place until
opening. If the County inadvertently opens an offer, proposal or a modification, prior to the
opening, the County shall reseal and store the opened offer, proposal or modification for
opening. The County shall document the resealing for the solicitation file (e.g. County
inadvertently opened the offer or proposal due to i mproper identification of the offer).

(b)  Timeliness. Offerors or proposers are responsible for ensuring their offers or proposals are
timely. The County may decline to consider a late o ffer, even if the offer or proposal is late
because of a delay in the County's internal handling of mail or documents or because the
County's receiving equipment was unavailable.

(c)  Completeness. Offerors or proposers are responsible  for ensuring their offers or proposals are
received by the County in a complete, legible, ungarbled form. The County may decline to
consider an offer that is incomplete, illegible, or garbled, even if the problem is caused by the
County's hardware or software.

(d)  Facsimile or electronic mail Submissions. Notwithstanding subsection (a), an offeror or
proposer may submit its offer or proposal by facsimile or electronic mail only if expressly
allowed under the solicitation document. The County shall not consider facsimile or electronic
mail offers or proposals unless authorized by the solicitation document

(12)  Bid and Proposal Opening.

(a)  Bids shall be opened by the contracting officer as described in the solicitation documents.

(b)  The County may open proposals at any time. There is  no requirement for proposals to be
opened in public.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 10

(c)  Subject to any exemptions under Oregon public recor ds statutes, bids and proposals shall be
available for public inspection only after the County has finished evaluating them.

(13)  Retainage on Public Contracts. Retainage, if any, shall be determined on a case by case basis by the
public contracting officer, shall be specified by contract between the parties and shall conform to th e
requirements of ORS 279C.550 through 279C.570.

(14)  Bid Evaluation

(a)  Generally. Opened bids shall be evaluated in accordance with the evaluation criteria outlined
in the bid documents applicable statutes and this Chapter. When a bid is determined to be
unresponsive to the invitation for bids, it will not be evaluated further.

(b)  Correction of Certain Errors. Arithmetic errors app arent on the face of a bid shall be corrected
by the County before comparing bid prices. Discrepancies between a unit price and an
extended total price for a bid item shall be resolved in favor of the unit price unless there is
evidence apparent on the face of the bid establishing that the extended price is correct.

(15)  Proposal Evaluation. Proposals shall be evaluated b ased upon the evaluation criteria established by
the request for proposals. Changes in evaluation criteria shall be communicated to all proposers or
prospective proposers by addendum. If evaluation criteria are changed after proposals have been
submitted, all proposers shall have an opportunity to supplement their proposals or submit best and
final offers after receipt of the addendum changing the evaluation criteria.

(16)  Rejection of Bid or Proposal.

(a)  The County may reject a bid or proposal if it finds:

(i)  The person has not substantially complied with all prescribed bidding procedures and
requirements.

(ii)  If it is in the public interest to reject some or all of the bids or proposals.

(iii)  The person has not met the standards of responsibility. In making a written
determination whether a prospective bidder or propo ser has met the standards of
responsibility, the County shall consider whether a prospective bidder or proposer has:

(A)  Available the appropriate financial, material, equipment, facility and personnel
resources and expertise, or ability to obtain the resources and expertise,
necessary to indicate the capability of the prospective bidder or proposer to meet
all contractual responsibilities;

(B)  Current, necessary licenses;

(C)  Liability and other insurance in amounts necessary to meet bid or proposal
requirements;

(D)  Workers compensation coverage pursuant to ORS 656.4 07 or 656.128;

(E)  Made the first-tier subcontractor disclosure required by ORS 279C.370;

(F)  A satisfactory record of performance. The County shall document the record of
performance of a prospective bidder or proposer if the County finds the
prospective bidder or proposer not to be responsibl e under this sub-
subparagraph;

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 11

(G)  A satisfactory record of integrity. The County shall document the record  of
integrity of a prospective bidder or proposer if the County finds the prospective
bidder or proposer not to be responsible under this sub-subparagraph;

(H)  Qualified legally to contract with the County;

(I)  Supplied all necessary information in connection with the inquiry concerning
responsibility. If a prospective bidder or proposer  fails to promptly supply
information requested by the County concerning responsibility, the County shall
base the determination of responsibility upon any available information, or may
find the prospective bidder or proposer not to be r esponsible; and

(J)  Not been debarred by the County under ORS 279B.130.

(b)  The County may make such investigation as is necessary to determine whether a person is
qualified. If a bidder or prospective bidder fails to supply promptly information as requested
by the public contracting officer pursuant to such investigation, such failure is grounds for
disqualification.

(17)  Irrevocability of Offers

(a)  Bids. All bids received by the County for a particular public contract become binding offers
when the first bid is opened, and remain irrevocable for 30 calendar days after opening unless
a different period is specified in the invitation for bids.

(b)  Proposals. All proposals received by the County for a particular contract shall become binding
offers on the last date for the receipt of best and final offers or, if best and final offers are not
invited or permitted, at the beginning of the County's final evaluation of proposals, and shall
remain irrevocable for 60 calendar days thereafter unless a different period is specified in the
request for proposals.

(c)  Extensions by County. The County may request, orall y or in writing, that offerors extend, in
writing, the time during which the County may accept their offer(s). If an offeror agrees to
such extension, the offer shall be irrevocable, valid and binding on the offeror for the agreed
upon extension.

(18)  Cancellation. The County may cancel a procurement at any time before a contract is signed, if the
County determines cancellation is in the County's best interests. If a procurement is canceled, the
County shall not be liable for any costs incurred b y prospective offerors. If a procurement is canceled
before bids or proposals are opened, the bids or proposals shall be returned to the bidders and
proposers unopened, except that the County may open a bid or proposal to determine the identity and
address of the bidder or proposer if the name and address are not shown on the outside of the
envelope. If a procurement is canceled after bids or proposals are opened, the County shall retain the
bids or proposals. The reason[s] for the cancellation shall be made part of the solicitation file.

(19)  Contract Amendments. Any contract amendment, including change orders, extra work, field orders,
or other change in the original specifications which increases the original contract price or alters the
work to be performed, may be made with the contractor subject to the following conditions:

(a)  The original contract, regardless of price, was awarded pursuant to these rules or ORS chapter
279A, 279B or 279C, unit prices or bid alternatives were provided that established the cost for
additional work, and a binding obligation exists on the parties covering the terms and
conditions of the additional work; or

(b)  The amount of the aggregate cost increase resulting from all amendments does not exceed 20%
of the initial contract, or 25% of the initial contract when the initial contract is for a face
amount not exceeding $150,000. Amendments made purs uant to subsection (1) of this section

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 12

are not included in computing the aggregate amount under this section.

(20)  Notice of Intent to Award. At least seven (7) days before the award of a public contract by bid or
proposal, unless the department determines seven da ys is impractical, the department shall post or
provide to each bidder or proposer notice of the department’s intent to award a contract. This section
does not apply to a contract awarded for less than $150,000, an emergency procurement, a sole
source procurement or a contract awarded under any exemption or alternative contracting method
listed in this chapter.

(21)  Performance Security Requirements.

(a)  Public Improvements Contracts. Unless the contract review board waives the required
performance bond, or in the event of an emergency, or unless the local contract review board
exempts a contract or classes of contracts from the required performance bond pursuant to
these rules, the contractor shall execute and deliver to the County a performance bond and a
payment bond each in a sum equal to the contract price for all public improvement contracts in
excess of $100,000, or in the case of contracts for highways, bridges or other transportation
projects in excess of $50,000.

(b)  Public Improvement Contracts Under $100,000. The Co unty may require a performance bond
and/or a payment bond for public improvement contracts under $100,000, but the County shall
not use such requirement to discourage competition.

(c)  Other Public Contracts. The County may require performance security for other public
contracts. Such requirements shall be expressly set forth in the solicitation document.

(d)  Form of Security. The County may accept only the following forms of Bid or Proposal
security:

(i)  A surety bond from a surety company authorized to d o business in the State of Oregon;

(ii)  An irrevocable letter of credit issued by an insured institution as defined in ORS
706.008; or

(iii)  A cashier’s check or certified check.

(e)  Time for Submission. Upon the County's request, the apparent successful offeror must furnish
the required performance bond and/or payment bond within 10 days. If the offeror fails to
furnish the bond within the 10 day period, the County may reject the offer and award the
contract to the next lowest responsive, responsible bidder or next highest-scoring responsive,
responsible proposer, and, at the County's discretion, the offeror shall forfeit its bid or proposal
security.

15.125 PERSONAL SERVICES CONTRACTS

(1)  Generally

(a)  Personal service contracts are not public contracts subject to competitive bidding provisions of
ORS Chapters 279A, 279B, 279C or this Chapter.

(b)  A department may enter into a personal service contract with an independent contractor
without competitive bidding when the department needs to have a personal service performed
as provided in this section. Each department may establish screening and selection processes.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 13

(2)  Cost Analysis.

(a)  No personal service contract exceeding $250,000 in total value shall be entered without
competitive procurement unless a cost-benefit analysis is first performed to determine whether
it is more cost efficient to perform the service in-house.

(b)  A personal service shall not be procured unless the department can demonstrate, in writing, by
means of a cost analysis that:

(i)  The overall cost to procure the service(s) is less than the cost to perform the service(s)
in-house; or

(ii)  Performing the service(s) with existing county personnel or resources is not feasible.

(c)  The cost benefit analysis shall be conducted pursuant to ORS 279B.030.

(d)  A cost benefit analysis is not required for the following categories of services or contracts:

(i)  Public improvement contracts;

(ii)  Client services, including mental health and human services described in OAR 125-
246-0110; or

(iii)  Situations in which the county does not have the staff available or the necessary
expertise to perform the service(s).

(3)  Personal Services.

(a)  The nature of the tasks to be performed, the needs of the department and the interests of the
public form the basis for distinguishing between personal service contracts and public
contracts. Hence, if the department requires goods or services for which the department has
developed or is reasonably able to develop, respect ively, adequate design and/or performance
specifications; and selecting a contractor on the basis of lowest price would be likely to meet
the department's needs, then the tasks should be pe rformed pursuant to a public contract let in
accordance with the competitive bidding provisions of this Chapter.

(b)  Conversely, if a department is reasonably unable to develop adequate design and/or
performance specifications but must instead have the assistance of the contractor's training,
knowledge and expertise to develop a scope of work statement and selecting the contractor on
the basis of lowest price would be unlikely to meet the department's needs, then the tasks
would most appropriately be performed under a perso nal service contract. In determining
whether its needs will be met through award of a personal service contract rather than a public
contract, the department should consider whether selecting the contractor on the basis of
qualifications rather than lowest price will result in the department obtaining the best value for
its money.

(c)  A personal service contract is not appropriate where price is or should be the primary selection
criterion. A public contract, in contrast to a personal service contract, will be awarded
primarily on the basis of price; criteria such a technical skill, creativity, artistic ability,
performance history, and demonstrated ability to be taken into account during the selection
process, will be of only secondary importance. Unless otherwise statutorily excepted, a public
contract must be awarded based on either competitive bidding, or an alternative competitive
process under this Chapter.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 14

(4)  Examples of Personal Service Contracts. Personal service contracts may include, but are not limited
to the following:

(a)  Contracts for services performed as an independent contractor in a professional capacity,
including but not limited to the services of an accountant, attorney, architectural or land use
planning consultant, physician or dentist, registered professional engineer, appraiser or
surveyor, passenger aircraft pilot, aerial photographer, timber cruiser, information technology
consultant or broadcaster;

(b)  Contracts for services as an artist in the performing or fine arts, including but not limited to
persons identified as photographer, film maker, painter, weaver, or sculptor;

(c)  Contracts for services of a specialized creative and research-oriented, noncommercial nature;

(d)  Contracts for services as a consultant;

(e)  Contracts for educational and human custodial care services.

(5)  Examples of Contracts Not for Personal Services. The following are not personal service contracts:

(a)  Contracts, even though in a professional capacity, if predominately for a product e.g., a
contract with a landscape architect to design a garden is for personal services, but a contract to
design a garden and supply all the shrubs and trees is predominately for a tangible product;

(b)  A service contract, including a contract with a temporary service or personnel agency, to
supply labor which is of a type that can generally be done by any competent worker, e.g., data
entry, key punch, janitorial, security guard, crowd management, crop spraying, laundry, and
landscape maintenance service contracts;

(c)  Contracts for trade-related activities considered to be labor and material contracts;

(d)  Contracts for services of a trade-related activity, to accomplish routine, continuing and
necessary functions, even though a specific license is required to engage in the activity.
Examples are repair and/or maintenance of all types of equipment or structures.

15.130 CONTRACTS EXEMPT FROM COMPETITIVE BIDDING

(1)  Purchases Under Federal Contracts or from Federal A gencies.

(a)  When the price of goods and services has been established by a contract with an agency of the
federal government pursuant to a federal contract a ward, the County may purchase the goods
and services in accordance with the federal contract without subsequent competitive bidding.
In exercising this authority under this exemption, the County shall:

(i)  Include in the contract file a letter or memoranda from the appropriate federal agency
granting permission to purchase under the federal contract; and

(ii)  Include in the contract file documentation showing the cost savings to be gained from
anticipated purchases from the federal contract.

(b)  Departments may also purchase equipment and supplies from federal government catalogues
maintained by the United States Administrator of General Services without competitive
bidding.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 15

(c)  Departments may purchase goods and equipment from the federal government under 10
U.S.C. 381, the Electronic Government Act of 2002 o r other federal law that is similar, or
section 211 of that Act.

(d)  The County shall not contract pursuant to this provision if there is an existing state price
agreement for the same item(s).

(2)  Food Contracts. Procurement of food or food product s which are available at “lower than normal”
prices.

(3)  Purchases of Used Personal Property. The County may purchase used personal property for $100,000
or less without competitive bidding if the department has determined that the direct purchase without
competitive bidding will result in cost savings and if no violation of ORS 244.040 will result from the
purchase. For purchases of used personal property over $100,000, three competitive quotes shall be
obtained. If three quotes are not available, a written record must be made of the attempt to obtain
quotes.

(4)  Gasoline, Diesel Fuel, Heating Oil, Lubricants and Asphalts. The County is exempt from formal
competitive bidding requirements for the purchase of gasoline, diesel fuel, heating oil, lubricants and
asphalts if the county seeks competitive quotes from the majority of vendors in the area, makes its
purchase from the least expensive source, and retains written justification for the purchase made.

(5)  Cooperative Procurements. A department that chooses to participate in, sponsor, conduct or
administer a Joint Cooperative Procurement, Permissive Cooperative Procurement or Interstate
Cooperative Procurement may do so only in accordance with ORS 279A.210, 279A.215 or
279A.220. If a department utilizes this exemption and the estimated value of the contract exceeds
$250,000, the department shall follow the process set forth in ORS 279A.215(2) and (3).

(6)  Hazardous Material Removal; Oil Cleanup.

(a)  The County may enter into public contracts without competitive bidding, regardless of dollar
amount, when ordered to clean up oil or hazardous waste pursuant to the authority granted the
State Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), under ORS chapter 466, and in particular,
ORS 466.605 through 466.680. In exercising its authority under this exemption the County
shall:

(i)  To the extent reasonable under the circumstances, e ncourage competition by attempting
to make informal solicitations or to obtain informal quotes from potential suppliers of
goods or services;

(ii)  Make written findings describing the circumstances requiring cleanup or a copy of the
DEQ order ordering such cleanup; and

(iii)  Record the measures taken under subsection (a) to e ncourage competition, the amount
of the quotes or proposals obtained, if any, and the reason for selecting the contractor
selected.

(b)  The County shall not contract pursuant to this exemption in the absence of an order from DEQ
to clean up a site with a time limitation that would not permit hiring a contractor under the
usual competitive bidding procedures.

(7)  Other Exempt Contracts. The County may, regardless of dollar value and without competitive
bidding, enter into contracts for the direct purchase of the following goods or services:

(a)  Advertising and Promotional Contracts.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 16

(b)  Ballots, Ballot Pages, and Ballot Cards. The County may enter into contracts for the printing
of ballots, including ballot pages and labeling of ballot cards.

(c)  Copyrighted Materials. The County may purchase copyrighted materials if there is only one
known supplier available for such goods. Examples o f copyrighted materials covered by this
exemption may include, but are not limited to, new adopted textbooks, workbooks, curriculum
kits, reference materials, books, periodicals, audio and visual media, and non-mass- marketed
software.

(d)  Employee Benefit Insurance. The County may purchase insurance products including property,
liability, workers compensation and employee benefit insurance or plans.

(e)  Equipment Maintenance. Contracts for the purchase o f services, equipment, or supplies for the
maintenance, repair or conversion of existing equipment are exempt if required for the
efficient utilization of the equipment. Where practicable, competitive quotes shall be obtained.

(f)  Investment Contracts. The County may contract for the purpose of the investment of public
funds or the borrowing of funds pursuant to a resolution, statute, ordinance, or charter.

(g)  Laboratory and Medical Supplies. The County may con tract for the following:

(i)  Drugs, including 340B pharmacy drugs (government re gulated drugs), biologicals,
blood fractions, and blood components;

(ii)  Intravenous solutions and associated supplies for a dministration;

(iii)  Microbiologicals, biochemicals, and diagnostic reagents;

(iv)  Surgical dressings;

(v)  Heart valves;

(vi)  E.E.G., E.K.G, electrodes, charts, and associated supplies;

(vii)  Sterilizing wraps;

(viii)  Catheters, medical tubes, and associated supplies;

(ix)  Surgical and orthopedic instruments;

(x)  Hearing aids;

(xi)  Pacemakers;

(xii)  Dental supplies;

(xiii)  Laboratory small package chemicals;

(xiv)  Biology supplies; and

(xv)  Therapeutic or cosmetic implants.

(h)  Medical Purchasing Cooperatives. A department which is a member of a legally established
purchasing cooperative may purchase hospital and medical supplies and equipment, as well as
lab testing services and pharmacy services through the cooperative.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 17

(i)  Office Supplies. Consumable office supplies including, but not limited to copy paper, pens,
copier toner, binders, etc.

(j)  Pass-Through Grants. A grant under which the county passes through to another recipient all
or a portion of the money or property received by the county from a federal or state agency,
provided that:

(i)  The county does not add or modify the original grant except as necessary to provide
proper administration; and

(ii)  The grant contains a clause substantially in the following form: “The recipient of grant
funds, pursuant to this agreement with the County, shall assume sole liability for
recipient’s breach of the conditions of the grant, and shall upon recipient’s breach of
grant conditions that causes or requires the County to return funds to the grantor, hold
harmless and indemnify the County for an amount equal to the funds which the County
is required to pay to the grantor.

(k)  Periodicals. The County may purchase subscriptions for periodicals, including journals,
magazines, and similar publications without competitive bidding.

(l)  Price Regulated Items. The County may contract for the direct purchase of goods or services
where the rate or price for the goods or services being purchased is established by federal, state
or local regulatory authority.

(m)  The County may engage in cooperative procurements a s set forth in ORS 279A.200-225.

(8)  Specific Exemptions

(a)  Exemptions Requests. The Contract Review Board may exempt a particular contract or
contracts from the bidding requirements of this chapter or ORS 279C.335 which are not
otherwise exempted under these sections upon approval of the following findings:

(i)  The nature of the project;

(ii)  Estimated cost of the project;

(iii)  A narrative description of the cost savings anticipated by the exemption from
competitive bidding and the reasons competitive bidding would be inappropriate;

(iv)  Proposed alternative contracting and purchasing practices to be employed;

(v)  The estimated date by which it would be necessary to let the contract;

(vi)  It is unlikely that such exemption will encourage favoritism in the awarding of public
contracts or substantially diminish competition for public contracts; and

(vii)  The awarding of public contracts pursuant to the exemption will result in substantial
cost savings to the County. In making such finding, the board may consider the type,
cost and amount of the contract, number of persons available to bid and such other
factors as may be deemed appropriate.

(viii)  Otherwise substantially promotes the public interest in a manner that could not
practically be realized by complying with this chapter.

(ix)  The Board may require such additional information as is deemed necessary to
determine whether a specific contract is to be exempt from competitive bidding.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 18

(b)  Approval of Requests. Before final adoption of the findings required by this section exempting
a contract for a public improvement from the requirement of competitive bidding, the County
shall hold a public hearing pursuant to ORS 279C.33 5(5).

15.135   DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY

(1)  Sales of Surplus Personal Property.

(a)   Prior to sale pursuant to this chapter, personal property must be declared surplus.  County
department heads may declare property with an estimated value below $3,000.00 surplus.
Property with an estimated value above $3,000.00 must be declared surplus by the Board of
Commissioners.

(b)  Surplus Personal property may be sold at auction if the County determines that the auction
contemplated may result in a higher net return than if the property were sold by competitive
written bid.

(c)  The County may sell surplus personal property, including recyclable or reclaimed materials,
without formal competitive bidding if it has determined that a negotiated sale will result in
increased net revenue or the current market value p er item is deemed to be less than $15,000.
The County may establish a selling price, schedule and advertise a sale date, and sell to the
first qualified buyer meeting the sale terms.

(d)  When the current value per item is deemed to exceed $15,000, the surplus personal property
must be offered for competitive bid and be advertised, or be offered for sale at public auction
in accordance with this Chapter. If no bids are rec eived or if a determination is made that the
market value of the property exceeds the offer of the highest responsible bidder, all bids may
be rejected and the county may negotiate a sale subject to the following conditions:

(i)  An appraisal of the market value of the property is obtained and documented and the
negotiated sale price exceeds the market value; or

(ii)  The sale amount exceeds the highest bid received through the bidding or auction
process.

(e)  The County may sell surplus personal property through a commercially recognized third party
liquidator if it has determined that a liquidation sale will result in increased net revenue.

(2)  Donations of Personal Property.

(a)  The County may donate or sell surplus personal prop erty of any value, without competitive
bidding, including recyclable or reclaimed materials to another public agency, or any sheltered
workshop, or nonprofit organization, after a determination has been made that the personal
property is not needed for other county purposes.

(b)  The County shall maintain a record of all transfers or donations sales authorized by this
section.

(3)  For the purposes of this section, the trade in or exchange of surplus County personal property to an
equipment dealer in conjunction with a purchase fro m that dealer will not be considered a disposition
of personal property nor subject to any requirements in this section.

15.140 CONTRACTS REQUIRING MODIFIED PROCUREMENT PRO CEDURES

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 19

(1)  Information and Telecommunication Systems Contracts .

(a)  Contracts for acquisition of information technology and/or telecommunication system
hardware and software may be let using alternate co mpetitive procurement methods subject to
the following conditions:
(i)  If the contract amount does not exceed $150,000, the County contracting agency shall,
as a minimum, follow informal competitive procurement methods. Prior to selection of a
vendor, reasonable efforts will be made to solicit proposals from three or more vendors.
Justification of award shall be documented and beco me a public record of the county.
(ii)  If the contract amount exceeds $150,000, the County may use the request for proposal
process and shall solicit written proposals pursuant to this chapter. The County shall
document the evaluation and award process, which will be part of the public record
justifying the award.

(iii)  If the amount of the contract is estimated to exceed $500,000, in addition to the
requirements of subsections (1)(b) of this section, the County shall provide proposers
the opportunity to review the evaluation of their proposal before final management
review and selection.

(b)  Telecommunications solicitation authorized in subsection (1) shall:

(i)  State the contractual requirements in the solicitation document;

(ii)  State the evaluation criteria to be applied in awarding the contract and the roles of any
evaluation committee. Criteria that would be used to identify the proposal that best
meets the County's needs may include, but are not limited to, cost, quality, service and
support, compatibility and interconnectivity, product or system reliability, vendor
viability and financial stability, operating efficiency, and expansion potential;

(iii)  State the provisions made for vendors to comment on any specifications which they feel
limit competition.

(2)  Telecommunications Services and Equipment.

(a)  In determining the appropriate procurement method for telecommunications services, the
department will determine whether competition exists. In determining competition, the
department may consider the following factors:

(i)  The extent to which alternative providers exist in the relevant geographic and service
market. The relevant market will vary from service category to service category and
cannot be pre-determined in advance. For example, an alternative long distance
provider might offer services in Portland, but not in Medford, or the rest of the state.

(ii)  The extent to which alternative services offered are comparable or substitutable in
technology, service provided, and performance. For example, if the department
requirement is for digital services, analog services are not comparable or substitutable.

(iii)  The extent to which alternative providers can respo nd to the department's interests in
consistency and continuity of services throughout its service area, volume discounts,
equitable service for all users, centralized management, and limiting the County's
liability.

(b)  Upon determination that competition does not exist for the relevant service and geological
area, the department may proceed to secure the service on a sole source basis.

(3)  Office Copier Purchases.

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 20

(a)  The County may enter into multiple price agreements or material and service contracts for the
purchase, rental or lease of office copying equipment. Except for this multiple award
exemption, such agreements shall otherwise conform to the requirements of PCCO 15.115.

(b)  In exercising this exemption the County shall fully consider the operating capabilities,
limitations and cost of each brand or model and select the brand which will produce the best
combination of performance and cost per copy for ea ch application.

(4)  Specification of Particular Brand Names or Product.

(a)  A brand name or equal specification may be used when the use of a brand name or equal
specification is advantageous to the department, because the brand name describes the
standard of quality, performance, functionality and other characteristics of the product needed
by the department.

(b)  The department is entitled to determine what constitutes a product that is equal or superior to
the product specified, and any such determination is final.

(c)  Nothing in this section may be construed as prohibiting a department from specifying one or
more comparable products as examples of the quality, performance, functionality or other
characteristics of the product needed by the depart ment.

(d)  A brand name specification may be prepared and used only if the department determines for a
solicitation or a class of solicitations, including for public improvements, that only the
identified brand name specification will meet the needs of the department based on one or
more of the following written findings:

(i)  It is unlikely that such exemption will encourage favoritism in the awarding of public
contracts or substantially diminish competition for public contracts;

(ii)  The specification of a product by brand name or mar k, or the product of a particular
manufacturer or seller, would result in substantial cost savings to the department;

(iii)  There is only one manufacturer or seller of the pro duct of the quality, performance or
functionality required; or

(iv)  Efficient utilization of existing goods requires the acquisition of compatible goods or
services.

(5)  Purchasing From Sole Source, Single Seller.

(a)  A department may purchase a particular product or s ervice available from only one source,
after documenting the procurement file with finding s of current market research to support the
determination that the product is available from only one seller or source. The department’s
findings shall also include:

(i)  A brief description of the contract or contracts to  be covered including contemplated
future purchases;

(ii)  Description of the product or service to be purchased; and

(iii)  The reasons the department is seeking this procurement method, which shall include
any of the following:

(A)  Efficient utilization of existing goods requires the acquisition of compatible
goods or services; or

Polk County Code of Ordinances Chapter 15 – Page 21

(B)  That the goods or services required for the exchange of software or data with
other public or private entities are available from only one source; or

(C)  The particular goods or services are for use in a pilot or an experimental project.

(D)  Other findings that support the conclusion that the goods or services are
available from only one source.

(b)  If the department intends to make several purchases of the product or service from a sole
source for a period not to exceed five years, it may so state in the solicitation file and in the
solicitation document, if any. Such documentation shall be sufficient notice as to subsequent
purchases.

(6)  Single Manufacturer, Multiple Sellers.

(a)  The County may specify a product or service available from only one manufacturer but
available through multiple sellers, after documenting the procurement file with the County's
information required in this subsection, and subjec t to the following:

(i)  If the total purchase is $15,000 or more but does not exceed $150,000 and a comparable
product or service is not available under an existing state requirements contract,
competitive quotes shall be obtained and retained in the procurement file; or

(ii)  If the amount of the purchase exceeds $150,000, the  product or service shall be
obtained through competitive bidding.

(b)  If the County intends to make several purchases of the product of a particular manufacturer or
seller for a period not to exceed five years, it may so state in the solicitation file and in the
solicitation document, if any. Such documentation shall be sufficient notice as to subsequent
purchases. If the total purchase amount is estimated to exceed $150,000, this shall be stated in
the advertisement for bids or proposals.

15.145 APPEALS

(1)  Procedure. The procedure for appeals from decisions of the public contracting officer shall be as
follows:

(a)  Notices of appeal shall be in writing addressed to the public contracting officer and must be
submitted no later than 14 calendar days from the date of the challenged decision.

(b)  Immediately upon receipt of written notice of appeal, the public contracting officer shall
inform the Board.

(c)  Upon receipt of notice of appeal, the Board shall notify the person appealing of the time and
place of the hearing.

(d)  The Board shall conduct a de novo hearing according to the provisions of ORS 279.045(3) and
decide the appeal within 30 days after receiving the notification and shall set forth in writing
the reasons for its decisions.