92-1
 CHAPTER 92 1989

 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN

 92.110  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.

 The Polk County Comprehensive Plan, entitle d "Polk County Comprehensive Plan," dated
August 1978, prepared by the Planning Division of the Department of County Development for Polk
County, attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, including
text and all appendices, figures and maps, is hereby adopted. [Ord. 217, Sec. 1]

Note:  The Polk County Community Development Department now performs functions of the
Department of County Development for Polk County relating to land use planning.

 92.115  AMENDING COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.

 Any person may apply to have the text or map of the Polk County Comprehensive Land Use
Plan amended. Application for a comprehensive plan amendment shall be made to the Polk County
Department of Community Development in a form prescribed by the department. The application
shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an am ount set by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners. [Ord. 268, Sec. 1]

Note:  See note under Section 92.110.

 92.120  ADOPTION OF OTHER PLANS.

 Notwithstanding the adoption of the Salem Urban Area Comprehensive Plan, Appendix "D"
to the Polk County Comprehensive Plan, by Section 92.110, none of the plans set forth on page 100
of the Salem Urban Area Comprehensive Plan, as adopted elements of that plan, are adopted by Polk
County unless expressly adopted by separate action of the Polk County Board of Commissioners.
[Ord. 217, Sec. 2]

 92.130  PHOTOGRAPHS.

 Certain aerial photograph mosaics numbere d 39 through 59, inclusive, depicting the
Greenway Boundary as amended by the Polk County Board of Commissioners, said mosaics being
attached hereto marked Exhibit "B" and by this reference incorporated herein as if fully set forth, are
hereby adopted as a part of the Polk County Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of recommending
said boundaries to the Oregon Land Conservation and Development Commission for its approval.
[Ord. 137, Sec. 2]

 92.140  FLOOD PLAIN REPORT.

 A certain document entitled "1973 Flood Plain Report, Polk County, Oregon," prepared by
the United States Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, marked Exhibit "C", is
hereby adopted to depict the flood hazard areas of Polk County. Said Flood Plain Report marked
Exhibit "C" is attached hereto and incorporated herein as if fully set forth. [Ord. 137, Sec. 3]

 92-2

 92.145  FLOOD PLAIN OVERLAY AND MAPS.

 (1)   The Flood Plain Overlay Zone set out as Exhibit "A" and incorporated in this section
by reference, is adopted as Chapter 178 of the Polk County Zoning Ordinance, Ordinance No. 78, as
amended.

 (2)   The Polk County Flood Insurance Maps ar e revised, as set out as Exhibit "B" on file
in the Polk County Planning Department. [Ord. 88-5, Secs. 1 and 2]

 92.150  LAND USE PLAN MAPS.

 The Land Use Plan Maps attached hereto entitled "Perrydale-Buell Area," "Grand Ronde
Area," "Eola Hills Area," "Dallas Area," "Spring Valley Area," "Central Polk Area," "Monmouth-
Independence Area," "South Polk Area," "Green wood-North Monmouth Area," and "Oak Grove
Area," marked Exhibits "E-1" through "E-10" inclusive, respectively, are adopted and incorporated
herein as if fully set forth. [Ord. 137, Sec. 5]

Note:  The various exhibits, maps, and other documents referred to in this chapter are on file in the
Polk County Community Development Department.

ORS Reference:

County Planning Ord. Zoning, ORS Chapter 215.