CHAPTER 93  1993

NUMBERED ADDRESSING SYSTEM AND STREET NAMES

 93.110  DIVISION LINE.

 (1) For the purpose of designating the areas of Polk County, Oregon, in which roads of
the County or parts thereof are located and to provide bases from which a renumbering of properties
on said roads can be accomplished, the County is hereby divided into two parts, North and South, by
the line shown on the map attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and made a part of this ordinance by
reference.

  (a) The division line shall start on th e Eastern border of the County, follow the
Willamina-Salem Highway West to the junction of Rickreall Road, continue
West along Ellendale Avenue to the Southern boundary of Section 25 T7S
R6W and follow that line and the extension thereof to the Western border of
Polk County. The base line shall be the Eastern boundary of Polk County.

 All roads within the County sh all be known by their legally established names, as the same
now exist or as they from time to time hereafter may exist. [Ord. 166, sec. 1]

 93.120  NUMBERING SYSTEM.

 (1) All properties in the County shall be  renumbered in accordance with the following
system of numbering, with the exception of incorpor ated cities, which shall retain their existing
numbering systems.

  (a) All numbering shall start from the division line, with the numbers increasing
to the North and to the South of the division line. Numbers shall increase to
the West of the base line. The lowest numbers of any street will be those
immediately adjacent to the division and base lines with higher numbers
being assigned in progression as the distances from the respective lines
increase. There may be up to 1000 numbe rs per mile, each even thousand
unit being coincident with a section line. Even numbers shall be assigned to
the East side of North-South roads and to the South side of East-West roads.
Odd numbers shall be assigned to the West side of North-South roads and to
the North side of East-West roads. Only those roads that cross the division
line will utilize North-South prefixes. [Ord. 166, sec. 2]

 93.130  ASSIGNING NUMBERS

 The Community Development Department of the County is authorized to and given the duty
of establishing and assigning numbers to all proper ties in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance. The Department shall give notice to the owners of properties within the County of the
assignments given. Notices of assigned numbers  which have already been given are hereby
confirmed. [Ord. 166, sec. 3, Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

Note: The functions described in Section 93.130 now are performed by the Polk County Surveyor.

 93-1

93.140  DISPLAYING NUMBERS

 All owners of property within the limits of the County hereby are required to display their
assigned number in a prominent and conspicuous place at the point of access to such property. [Ord.
166, sec. 4]

 93.200  STREET NAMING

 (1) All public and private roads and street s shall be named in accordance with the
provisions of this Ordinance and as approved by the Community Development Department.

 (2)  Except for extensions of existing streets or extensions of the street grid system as
provided in Section 93.120 of PCC Chapter 93, no street names shall be used which will duplicate or
be confused with the names of existing roads a nd streets within Polk County. However, duplicate
names may be allowed where the address ranges and rural delivery name are clearly different so that
confusion will not occur.

 (3) The name of any street or private road  that appears on a recorded plat approved by
the County shall be the name of the road or street unless changed as provided in Section 93.330.

 (4) A street name change may be initiate d by the Community Development Director, the
Board of County Commissioners, or by petition in accordance with Section 93.330.

 (5) The process in Section 93.400 shall be utili zed for processing a street or road name
change. The final decision shall be filed with the Polk County Department of Public Works,
Assessor's Office, Clerk's Election Division, Postmaster, 911, and the affected fire district. [Ord. 93-
13, sec. 1]

 93.300  APPLICATION FOR STREET NAMING OR CHANGE IN STREET NAME.

 A property owner may initiate naming of a street or request a change in the name of a street
by filing an application with the County Community Development Department. The application will
contain certain information depending upon which of  the three following situations exists: (a)
naming of a street in conjunction with a land use action; (b) naming a street when no land use action
occurs; (c) renaming an existing street. [Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

 93.310  APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED WHEN NAMING A STREET IN
CONJUNCTION WITH A LAND USE ACTION

 (1)   The name and phone number of the applicant;

 (2)   At least two (2) suggested names for the street;

 (3)  Applicant's order of preference for street names;

 (4) Location of street or road (include from  and to address numbers as well as names of
all cross streets);

 93-2

(5) One full scale copy of the County Assesso r's map(s) showing the subject street or
road and all abutting properties;

 (6) If a private road, a copy of the easement or legal document creating the road;

 (7) A list of the names and addresses of each  owner of property abutting the street or
road or relying on the street or road for access; the list prepared for the land use case may be used to
provide a notification list if the list was obtained not more than 180 days before submission of the
street name application. [Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

 93.320  APPLICATION INFORMATION REQUIRED WHEN NAMING A STREET
NOT
 IN CONJUNCTION WITH A LAND USE ACTION

 (1) The name and phone number of the applicant;

 (2)   At least two (2) suggested names for the street;

 (3)   Applicant's order of preference for street names;

 (4) The signature of 51% of the owners of property abutting the subject street or road
relying on the street or road for access signifying that one or more of the suggested names are
acceptable;

 (5) Location of street or road (include from  and to address numbers as well as names of
all cross streets);

 (6) One full scale copy of the County Assesso r's map(s) showing the subject street or
road and all abutting properties;

 (7) If a private road, a copy of the easement or legal document creating the road;

 (8) A list of the names and addresses of each  owner of property abutting the street or
road or relying on the street or road for access;

 (9) A fee in an amount set by order of the Board of Commissioners. [Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

 93.330  APPLICATION INFORMATION RE QUIRED FOR RENAMING A STREET OR
ROAD.

 (1)   The name and phone number of the applicant;

 (2)   At least two (2) suggested names for the street;

 (3)   Applicant's order of preference for street names;

 (4) The signature of 51% of the owners of property abutting the subject street or road
relying on the street or road for access signifyi ng that one or more of the proposed names are
acceptable;

 93-3

(5) Location of street or road (include from  and to address numbers as well as names of
all cross streets);

 (6) One full scale copy of the County Assesso r's map(s) showing the subject street or
road and all abutting properties;

 (7) If a private road, a copy of the easement or legal document creating the road;

 (8) A list of the names and addresses of each  owner of property abutting the street or
road or relying on the street or road for access;

 (9) A fee in an amount set by order of the Board of Commissioners. [Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

 93.400  PROCEDURE FOR REVIEWING APPLICATIONS.

 (1) After determining that the applicati on is complete, property owners abutting the
subject street or road or relying on the street or road for access shall be sent a notice of the proposed
names, and given 10 calendar days to indicate which of the proposed names are acceptable or
unacceptable. If the proposal is to name an unnamed street or road, the notice will include the new
address numbers assigned by the Community Deve lopment Department for all developed or
previously addressed parcels which have access to the street or road being named.

 (2) The Community Development Director sh all determine the name of the street or
road, after taking into consideration the following criteria:

  (a)  The degree of acceptance by those provided notice;

  (b)  Historical significance of street name;

  (c)   Common usage of the street name;

  (d)  Association of street name to local  geographic or other points of distinction;

  (e)  Access by emergency service providers;

  (f)  Other factors peculiar to the case deemed relevant by the Director.

  (g) The Director may decide to retain the existing street name.

 (3) The Director's decision is final unle ss a written request for review and a public
hearing before the County Hearings Officer is requested, and the appropriate appeal fee is paid
within ten (10) days following the date the decision is mailed. The hearing fee shall be established
by Order of the Board of Commissioners.

 (4) At least ten (10) days notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to each property
owner and to those public agencies identified in Section 93.200 (6). The Hearings Officer shall make
written findings of fact and determine the street  name from the list of names submitted, unless
another name, which has 100% concurrence of the affected property owners and is approved by the
Community Development Director is submitted to the Hearings Officer at the hearing.

 93-4

 93-5

 (5) The Hearings Officer shall consider the factors listed in Section 93.400 (2) and any
other factors deemed relevant in making the decision. The Hearings Officer's decision shall be final,
unless a written request for review is submitted to the Board of Commissioners by an affected
property owner within ten (10) days after a copy of the decision is mailed. The decision of the Board
shall be subject to judicial review as provided by ORS 203.113.

 (6) In the case of a proposal to rename a street  or road, the Director, Hearings Officer, or
Board may deny the proposal if an evaluation of the criteria in Section 93.400 (2) indicates that the
existing name should be retained. Another applica tion to rename a street or road shall not be
submitted within one year of a denial, unless the applicants include evidence of 100% concurrence
of the affected property owners and all other application requirements are met. [Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

 93.500  PLACEMENT OF STREET SIGNS.

 (1) All street or road signs for officially  named streets or roads shall conform to the
standards specified by the Polk County Public Works Department for size, shape, and color.

 (2) When an application for naming or rena ming a street or road has been approved as
provided in this Chapter, the naming or renaming shall not be final until the applicant has met the
requirements in Section 93.500 (3).

 (3) Cost of sign installation on a road or street that has been accepted into the County
road system shall be the responsibility of Polk County. Cost of sign installations on public or private
streets and roads shall be the responsibility of  the applicant under one of the two following
procedures:

  (a)   A private work order shall be prep ared if the applicant chooses to have the
Polk County Public Works Department install the sign on a reimbursable
basis.

  (b)  If the applicant chooses to have  the work done by someone other than the
Polk County Public Works Department, all street or road signs and
installation procedures shall comply with standards of the Polk County
Public Works Department. [Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]

 93.600  ENFORCEMENT.

 (1) Excepting Section 93.140, a violation of this Chapter is an infraction. If it is
determined that a violation has occurred, the Community Development Director may take whatever
steps are necessary under Polk County Code Chapte r 50 to obtain compliance with this Chapter.
[Ord. 93-13, sec. 1]