\\Earth\vol1\GROUP\COMMDEV\PLANNING\Zoning Ordinance Current\9-27-2024 to current\CHAPTER 111 (2024 update).doc  111-1

CHAPTER 111
ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
111.010. Administration of the Ordinance
111.020. Minimum Requirements
111.030. Effect on Other Ordinances, Agreements Between Parties
111.040. Interpretation of Ordinance
111.050. Similar Uses
111.060. Fees
111.070. Zoning Designations
111.090. Official Zoning Map
111.110. Amending Official Zoning Map
111.120. Replacement of Official Zoning Map
111.130. Rules for Interpretation of Zone Boundaries
111.150. Initiation of Zone Change Proceedings by Polk County
111.160. Initiation of Zone Change
111.170. Zone Change Signatures: How Counted
111.180. Filing and Checking Petition
111.190. Zone Change  Hearing Before the Hearings Officer
111.200. Zone Change Hearing Before  the Board of Commissioners
111.210. Final Action by the Board of Commissioners
111.215 Amending the Text of the Po lk County Zoning Ordinance
111.220. Filing a Land Use  Application
111.230. Notice of Application
111.235 Special Transportation Notification
111.240. Administrative Review
111.245. Notice of Type A Procedure
111.250. Action by Planning Director  or Hearings Officer
111.260. Referral by Planning Director
111.270. Notice of Action by Planning Director or Hearings Officer
111.275. Zone Change Criteria
111.280. Appeal and Remand Consideration Procedures
111.290. Call of Board of Commissioners
111.300. Action by Board of Commissioners
111.310. Effective Date
111.320. Holding Public Hearings
 111-2

111.330. Appearances of Interested Person, Remonstrances
111.340. Notice of Public Hearing; Content
111.350. Mailing of Notice; Notification Area; Failure to Receive Notice
111.360. Posting Notice
111.370. Publishing Notices
111.380. Conduct of Hearing; Continuanc e; Extension; Reopening Record

 111-3

111.010.  ADMINISTRATION OF THE ORDINANCE.  This ordinance shall be jointly
administered by the County Building Official and the Director of Planning.
The Building Official or other designated officer, prior to issuing any permit pertaining to the use
of land or structures, or the erection or alteration of any structure, shall ascertain that the
proposed use or construction shall in all ways conform to the requirements set forth in this
ordinance.
The Planning Director shall handle all matters pertaining to zone changes, variances, and
conditional uses, and other administrative matters as prescribed by this ordinance; and such other
matters as directed by the Board of Commissioners.
111.020.  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.  In interpreting and applying this ordinance, the
provisions herein shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
111.030.  EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES, AGREEMENTS BETWEEN PARTIES.
It is not intended by this ordinance to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or interfere
with any existing provision of law or ordinance, previously adopted, relating to the use of
buildings or premises, or relating to the erection, construction, establishment, alteration, or
enlargement of any buildings or improvements; nor is it intended by this ordinance to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, or other agreement between parties; provided,
however, that where this ordinance imposes a greater restriction upon the erection, construction,
establishment, alteration, or enlargement of buildings, structure, or improvements, or the use of
any such structures or premises in said several zones or districts, or any of them, than is imposed
or required by such existing provisions of this ordinance, the greater restriction shall control,
except that such precedence of this ordinance shall not apply to valid and unexpired permits
and/or uses previously granted under the terms and provisions of any ordinance.
111.040. INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCE.
(A)  When, in the administrati on of this ordinance, there is doubt regarding the intent of
the ordinance, the Director shall request an interpretation of the provision by the
Board of Commissioners, who may issue an interpretation of the question if they
have determined that such interpretation is within their power and is not a
legislative act. Any interpretation of the ordinance shall be based on the following:
(1)  The purpose and intent of the ordinan ce as applied to the particular section
and question; and,
(2)  The opinion of the County Counsel  when requested by the Board of
Commissioners.
(B)  The Board of Commissioners may decide that the interpretation of the question is
not within their power without an ordinance amendment or that there is insufficient
basis upon which to make an interpretation and may request the Director to study
the problem, and where necessary, propose an amendment to the ordinance.
[Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
(C)  A use is not precluded from being estab lished or authorized in a zone based solely
on the fact that the use is more specifically identified in another zone, except for
Marijuana Uses defined in PCZO 110.371. [Amended by Ordinances 14-04 and 16-01]
111.050.  SIMILAR USES.  The Director may permit in any zone any use not described or
listed in this ordinance for any other zone if, in the opinion of the Director, the requested use is
of the same general type and is similar to the uses permitted in the zone.  Such review and
permission shall be made in the same manner as other interpretations of this ordinance, as
described in Section 111.040.
 111-4

111.060.  FEES.  Fees shall be required by the Director to be paid at the time of filing of each
petition or application for a farm or forest dwelling, lot-of-record determination, land use
determination, conditional use, planned development, variance, land partition, property line
adjustment, similar use decision, comprehensive plan amendment, or zone change.  The fees
required by this section shall be set by resolution adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners. [Amended by Ordinance 267]
111.070 ZONING DESIGNATIONS
FULL NAME DESIGNATION
Suburban Residential Zone SR Zone
Acreage Residential 5 Acre Zone     A R-5 Zone
Acreage Residential 10 Acre Zone A R-10 Zone
Agriculture and Forestry 10 Acre Zone AF-10 Zone
Limited Multi-Family Residential Zone RL Zone
Multi-Family Residential Zone RM Zone
High Rise Apartment Residential Zone RH Zone
Exclusive Farm Use Zone EFU Zone
Farm/Forest Zone F/F Zone
Farm Forest Overla
y Zone FFO Zone
Public Amusement and Recreation Zone PA Zone
Public and Private Cemeteries Zone PC Zone
Public and Private Education Facilities Zone PE Zone
Public and Private Hos
pital Zone PH Zone
Public Park Zone PP Zone
Public Service Zone PS Zone
Commercial Office Zone CO Zone
Commercial Retail Zone CR Zone
Commercial General Zone CG Zone
Industrial Commercial Zone IC Zone
Industrial Park Zone IP Zone
Li
ght Industrial Zone IL Zone
Heavy Industrial Zone IH Zone
Rural Industrial Zone R-IND Zone
Mineral Extraction Zone ME Zone
Timber Conservation Zone TC Zone
Rural Commercial Zone
R-COM Zone
Unincorporated Community Commercial Office Zone UC-CO Zone
Unincorporated Community Commercial Retail Zone UC-CR Zone
Unincorporated Community Commercial General Zone UC-CG Zone
Unincorporated Community Industrial-Commercial Zone UC-IC Zone
Unincorporated Community Industrial Park Zone UC-IP Zone
Unincorporated Community Light Industrial Zone UC-IL Zone
Unincorporated Community Heavy Industrial Zone UC-IH Zone
Eola Unincorporated Community Commercial Eola UC-C Zone
Eola Unincorporated Community Industrial Commercial Eola UC-IC Zone
 111-5

Eola Unincorporated Community Industrial Eola UC-I Zone
Rickreall Unincorporated Community Commercial Rickreall UC-C Zone
Rickreall Unincorporated Community Industrial Commercial Rickreall UC-IC Zone
Rickreall Unincorporated Community Industrial Rickreall UC-I Zone
Northwest Polk Community Commercial NPC-C Zone
Commercial Highway / Tourist CH / T Zone
Grand Ronde Light Industrial G R / LI Zone
Grand Ronde Heavy Industrial GR / HI Zone
Grand Ronde Public Assembly Zone GR / PA Zone
Grand Ronde Public Works / Safety GR / PW Zone
Limited Use Overlay Zone LU Zone
111.090.  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
(A) The Official Zoning Map adopted with  an effective date of September 4, 2024,
exists as an electronic map layer within the Polk County geographic information
system (GIS) at a scale of 1:24,000. The Official Zoning Map shall be maintained by
the Planning Director. [Amended by Ordinances 11-02, 11-04, 12-06, 13-03, 18-03, 24-03, and 24-05]
(B) The Official Zoning Map shall depict the zoning designations for all properties
located in Polk County, and shall be consistent with the Polk County
Comprehensive Plan Map. The Official Zoning Map shall be the final authority as to
the zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other structures. [Amended by
Ordinance 11-02]
(C)  The Official Zoning Map shall be availa ble for review through the Polk County GIS
at the Community Development Department during office business hours. [Amended by
Ordinance 11-02]
(D) The Planning Director may create an o fficial copy of the Official Zoning Map by
certifying on the copy that “this is an official copy of the Polk County Official
Zoning Map.”  [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
111.110.  AMENDING OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.  A zone change is a reclassification of
any area on the Official Zoning Map from one zoning designation to another, after the proposed
change has been reviewed and a recommendation made by the Hearings Officer or the Planning
Commission.  Such change shall be an ordinance enacted by the Board of Commissioners after
proceedings have been accomplished in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Annexation of territory to a city shall result in automatic amendment of the Official Zoning Map
as of the effective date of annexation. When the Official Zoning Map is amended by ordinance
or annexation to a city, the Planning Director shall cause the changes to be made to the Official
Zoning Map. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
111.120.  REPLACEMENT OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.  In the event the Official Zoning
Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret, or when it is necessary or
desirable for some other reason, the Board of Commissioners, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, may adopt all or part of a new Official Zoning Map by resolution. Such
map shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map.  The new Official Zoning Map may correct
editing or other errors or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall
have the effect of amending the ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof.   [Amended by
Ordinance 11-02]
 111-6

111.130.  RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF ZONE BOUNDARIES.  Where uncertainty
exists as to the boundaries of zones as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules
shall apply:
(A) Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of streets,
highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines;
(B) Boundaries indicated as a pproximately following platted lot lines shall be construed
as following such lot lines;
(C) Boundaries indicated as  approximately following county boundaries shall be
construed as following county boundaries;
(D) Boundaries indicated as following railroad  lines shall be construed to be midway
between the main tracks.
(E) Boundaries indicated as approximately foll owing the center lines of streams, rivers,
canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines;
(F) Boundaries indicated as parall el to our extensions of features indicated in subsections
(A) through (E) above shall be so construed.  Distances not specifically indicated on
the official zoning map shall be determined by the scale of the map;
(G) Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those
shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not covered by
subsections (A) through (F) above, the director shall interpret the zone boundaries,
and if need be, may refer the matter to the Board of Commissioners for their
interpretation.  [Amended by Ordinance 88-19]
111.150.  INITIATION OF A ZONE CHANGE BY POLK COUNTY.
(A) A zone change may be initiated by Polk County only when the change proposed is in
the public interest.
(B) Proceedings to reclassify premises as to zone initiated by Polk County shall be by
resolution, and the resolution shall be referred to the Planning Commission, if
legislative, and the Hearings Officer, if quasi-judicial.  The Director shall hereupon
fix a date for hearing before the hearing body and give notice of such hearing as
provided in Sections 111.340 through 111.370.
(C) After the hearing, the Planning Commission or Hearings Officer shall make a
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.
[Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
111.160.  INITIATION OF ZONE CHANGE.  Property owners, or persons purchasing
property under contract, if they state in writing that they are purchasing the property under
contract, may file a zone change petition.  The petition shall be in writing on forms provided by
the Planning Director and shall be filed with the Planning Director not less than 45 days prior to
the date of the hearing.  The petition shall contain the following information:
(A) The present zone;
(B) The proposed zone;
(C) The street address, or where none exists, the location of the property;
(D) The legal description of the pr operty sought to be reclassified;
(E) The names, addresses and zip codes of th e owner(s) of the property sought to be
reclassified; and
(F) The signatures of the owners of at least 50 percent of the area of the property sought
to be reclassified and the extent or percentage of interest or portion of the property as
may be owned by the person signing the petition.
 111-7

111.170.  ZONE CHANGE SIGNATURES:  HOW COUNTED. Pursuant to Section 111.160
(F), the following rules shall apply:
(A) Tenants in Common.  When but one tenant in common, or several but less than all,
signs a zone change petition or waiver it shall be counted only for such interest or
portion of the common property as the person or persons signing may own.
(B) Tenants by the Entirety; Joint Tenancy.  Where property is owned by a husband and
wife as tenants by the entirety and only one of them signs, he or she shall be deemed
the owner of 1/2 of the property and shall be counted accordingly.  Where property is
owned by two (2) or more persons under an estate having the attributes of a joint
tenancy or right of survivorship each tenant shall be deemed the owner of so much of
the property as he would receive if the joint property were divided equally between
such tenants.
(C) Purchasers Under Contract.  Any person purchasing property under a contract of sale
may sign a petition, waiver, or other instrument required by this ordinance, as owner,
provided that he states he is purchasing the property under contact.
(D) Government Property.  Notwith standing the fact that the consent of the federal, state,
county, or local government, or the agents thereof, is not necessary to any zone
change petition or other petition required by this ordinance, any such governmental
unit or agency may, however, remonstrate and object to any proposed change, and
such objection, remonstrance, or other instrument shall be signed by the
administrative head of such governmental unit having authority over the property.
(E) Corporations.  Where property is owned by a private corporation, a petition, waiver,
or other instrument convening such property under this ordinance shall be signed by
an authorized officer of the corporation.
(F) Prima Facie Proof of Ownership.  When a ny person signs as the owner of property or
as an officer of a public or private corporation owning the property, or as an attorney
in fact or agent of any such owner, or when any person states that he is buying the
property under contract, the Hearings Officer and the governing body may accept
such statements to be true, unless the contrary be approved, and except where
otherwise in this ordinance more definite and complete proof is required, the
Hearings Officer or governing body may demand proof that the signer is such owner,
officer, attorney in fact, or agent.  [Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
111.180.  FILING AND CHECKING PETITION.   After the complete zone change petition
has been filed with the Planning Director, the staff shall check the petition and determine if the
petition is complete under the provisions of Section 111.170, and if the petition is sufficient, the
Planning Director shall then fix the time of the hearing on such petition before the Planning
Commission or Hearings Officer and cause notice of hearing to be given as provided in Sections
111.340 through 111.370.  [Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
111.190.  ZONE CHANGE HEARING BEFORE THE HEARINGS OFFICER.  The
Hearings Officer shall hold a public hearing as prescribed in Chapter 111 on the complete
petition for zone change.  After concluding this hearing, the Hearings Officer shall prepare a
report setting forth a summary of facts and conditions involved in the reclassification and submit
the same, together with a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners.  [Amended by Ordinance 88-
21]
111.200.  ZONE CHANGE HEARING BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
The Board of Commissioners shall hold a public hearing on the proposed zone change as
provided in Chapter 111.  Final decision by the Board of Commissioners shall not be effective
until 21 days after mailing of the decision.  Filing of an appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals
 111-8

stays all proceedings by all parties in connection with the matter appealed until the appeal has
been resolved. [Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
111.210.  FINAL ACTION BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  Any zone change or
reclassification of property shall be by ordinance which shall be passed by the Board of
Commissioners.  Any denial of a proposed zone change shall be by order.  A final decision by
the Board of Commissioners shall not be effective until 21 days after mailing of the decision.
Filing of an appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals stays all proceedings by all parties in
connection with the matter appealed until the appeal has been resolved.  Whenever any premises
are reclassified as to zone, or a new zone established, or boundary lines of a zone changed, the
official zoning map shall be changed as provided in Section 111.140.
[Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
111.215. AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE POLK COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE.
(A)  [ORS 197.612(1)] An amendment to the te xt of the Polk County Zoning Ordinance
solely for the purpose of conforming the ordinance to new requirements in a land use
statute, statewide land use planning goal or rule of the Land Conservation and
Development Commission implementing the statutes or goals may be made without
holding a public hearing when:
(1) Polk County gives notice to the Oreg on Department of Land Conservation and
Development of the proposed change in the manner provided by ORS 197.610
and 197.615;
(2)  The Oregon Department of Land Cons ervation and Development confirms in
writing that the only effect of the proposed change is to conform the Polk
County Zoning Ordinance to the new requirements; and
(3) The Planning Division provides notice of  the proposed change to the Planning
Commission.
(B) An amendment to the text of th e Polk County Zoning Ordinance under the
provisions of subsection (A) of this section shall be considered a ministerial decision
and not a land use action. Amendments under subsection (A) of this section need
only be adopted on the Board of Commissioner’s Consent agenda.
(C) All amendments to the text of the Polk County Zoning Ordinance that are not
included in subsection (A) of the section shall be processed under the procedures and
criteria for a legislative comprehensive plan amendment described in Chapter 115.
[Amended by Ordinance 14-01]
111.220.  FILING A LAND USE APPLICATION.
(A) Application for any land use permit or determination under this ordinance shall be
submitted to the Community Development Department on forms provided by the
County Planning Director.  The application shall be accompanied by the appropriate
fee(s) as adopted by the Board of Commissioners.  An application may be filed by:
(1) The owner of the subject property;
(2)  A purchaser thereof under a duly execut ed written contract, when the purchaser
states on the application he or she is the contract purchaser and the seller
consents in writing to the application;
(3)  A lessee in possession of the subjec t property, when the owner consents in
writing to the application; or
(4)  The agent for any of the foregoing pe rsons when duly authorized in writing by
the owner of the property.
 111-9

(B) Concurrent requests do not require multip le fees; however, the higher of multiple
application fees shall be charged
(C) If an application for a permit, limited land use decision or zone change is incomplete,
the Planning Director shall notify the applicant in writing of exactly what
information is missing within 30 days of receipt of the application and allow the
applicant to submit the missing information. The application shall be deemed
complete upon receipt by the Planning Director of:
(1) All of the missing information;
(2) Some of the missing information and written notice from the applicant that no
other information will be provided; or
(3) Written notice from the applicant that none of the missing information will be
provided.
 [Amended by Ordinance 10-04]
Note: This provision does not preclude the applicant from submitting additional
information at a later date.
(D) On the 181st day after first being submitted, the application is void if the applicant
has been notified of the missing information as required under subsection (C) of this
section and has not submitted:
(1) All of the missing information;
(2) Some of the missing information and written notice that no other information
will be provided; or
(3) Written notice that none of the missing information will be provided. [Amended
by Ordinance 10-04]
111.230.  NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
(A) Notice of an application wh ich requires a public hearing shall be made as prescribed
in Sections 111.340 through 111.370 of the Polk County Zoning Ordinance.
(B) Notification shall be made at least 20 days before the date on which the application
is to be heard.  Those notified have an opportunity to comment in writing to the
Planning Director concerning the application.
[Amended by Ordinance 90-19]
111.235 SPECIAL TRANSPORTATION NOTIFICATION
(A) Polk County will provide ODOT notification to ensure that ODOT is involved as
early as possible in the assessment of any redevelopment or new development
proposal within the Rickreall community with a trip generation potential that
significantly exceeds the trip generation assumptions for the Rickreall community
adopted into the Polk County TSP as part of the Rickreall Junction Facility Plan.
The ODOT contact for any such development shall be the ODOT Region 2 Planner.
[Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(B)  Polk County will provide ODOT notificati on to ensure that ODOT is involved as
early as possible in the assessment of any redevelopment or new development
proposal within the Fort Hill Interchange Management Area Overlay Zone with a
trip generation potential that significantly exceeds the trip generation assumptions
used for the Fort Hill IAMP.  The ODOT contact for any such development shall be
the ODOT Region 2 Planner. [Amended by Ordinances 07-06 and 11-02]
111.240.  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.  Administrative review shall be conducted by the
Planning Director as follows:
 111-10

(A) Type A Procedure.  This procedure shall apply to applications for land partitions;
farm dwellings in the Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) and Farm Forest (F/F) zones;
property line adjustments (except for those exclusions noted in Chapter 91 of the
Polk County Code; forest dwellings in the Timber Conservation (TC) and Farm
Forest (F/F) zones; lot-of-record determinations as specified by this ordinance;
placement of manufactured homes in the Suburban Residential (SR) zone; use of a
manufactured home for temporary hardship in all zones; administrative variances;
land use determinations; and all other listed uses as specified.  Under this procedure,
the Planning Director shall render a final decision or, alternatively, may refer the
matter to the Hearings Officer as provided under Section 111.260.  Decisions under
this procedure may be appealed as provided under Section 111.280.
(B) Type B Procedure.  This procedure shall apply to all applications not specified under
Section 111.240 (A), unless an initial hearing is required by a specific provision of
the Polk County Zoning Ordinance.  Notice of the proposed action shall be made
pursuant to Section 111.350.  Those notified, including the applicant, shall be given
10 days from the date of the notification to either submit a written request for public
hearing before the Hearings Officer, or bring to the attention of the Planning Director
objections to approval or any adverse consequences or incompatibilities that may
result from approval.  A request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall state the
basis for requesting the hearing and shall be accompanied by payment of a fee,
specified in the County's fee resolution, to defray the cost of the hearing.  The
amount of the fee shall not exceed the limits established by ORS 215.416(11).  No
fee is required if the hearing is requested by the Board, Commission, Department of
Land Conservation and Development, or the Director.
[Amended by Ordinances 92-38, 97-9, and
09-02]
111.245.  NOTICE OF TYPE A PROCEDURE.
(A) Notice of applications under Section 111.240 (A) shall be sent for review and
comment to all groups that are registered with the Planning Division to receive
electronic notification of land use applications within the geographical area that
includes the site of the land use request and any affected jurisdiction, state, or local
agency as determined by the Planning Director
.  [Amended by Ordinances 97-9 and 09-02]
(B) Notice shall be mailed to  the Oregon Department of Transportation for any land use
change or development requiring County review and approval which requires direct
access to a state highway or which is located within 500 feet of a state highway.
Notice shall be mailed to the owner of an airport, defined by the Oregon Department
of Aviation as a “public use airport,” and to the Oregon Department of Aviation for
any land use change or development requiring County review and approval within
5,000 feet of a visual flight rules public use airport or is within 10,000 feet of an
instrument flight rules public use airport.  [Amended by Ordinances 98-5 and 11-02]
111.250.  ACTION BY PLANNING DIRECTOR OR HEARINGS OFFICER.
(A) Applications submitted  under section 111.240 may be granted only if they meet
criteria established in the Polk County Zoning Ordinance and/or Comprehensive
Plan.  Decisions shall be made by the Polk County Planning Director or Hearings
Officer only after reviewing materials submitted with the application and other
applicable evidence and hearing testimony from Planning Division staff, the
applicant(s) and other interested parties.
(B) If the application was complete when first submitted or the applicant submits
additional information as described in Section 111.220 (C), within 180 days of the
date the application was first submitted, approval or denial of the application shall be
 111-11

based upon the standards and criteria that were applicable at the time the application
was first submitted. [Amended by Ordinance 10-04]
(C) Polk County shall take fi nal action on an application for a permit, limited land use
decision, or zone change, for land within an urban growth boundary and applications
for mineral aggregate extraction, including resolution of all appeals under Section
111.280, within 120 days after the application is deemed complete pursuant to
Section 111.220 (C). Polk County shall take final action on all other applications for
a permit, limited land use decision, or zone change, including resolution of all
appeals under Section 111.280, within 150 days after the application is deemed
complete pursuant to Section 111.220 (C). [Amended by Ordinance 10-04]
(D) The 120 or 150-day period set in subsection (C) of this section may be extended for a
specified period of time at the written request of the applicant. The total of all
extensions may not exceed 215 days. [Amended by Ordinance 10-04]
(E) The 120 or 150-day period set in subsection (C) of this section does not apply to an
amendment to the Polk County Comprehensive Plan or the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance. [Amended by Ordinance 10-04]
111.260.  REFERRAL BY PLANNING DIRECTOR.
(A) The Polk County Planning Director ma y decline to act on an application under
section 111.240 and refer it to the Polk County Hearings Officer.  Referral shall be
made within 30 days after the date on which the application is received, and shall be
heard at the first regular meeting of the Hearings Officer scheduled after the referral.
(B) Action of the Hearings Officer on a referral is final and may be appealed in
accordance with section 111.280.
(C) The Director shall notify the applicant in wr iting of a referral to the Hearings Officer.
Notice shall be sent within seven days after the date of referral.
111.270.  NOTICE OF ACTION BY PLANNING DIRECTOR OR HEARINGS
OFFICER.  The Polk County Planning Director shall send notice of any action taken on an
application under Section 111.240 to all groups that are registered with the Planning Division to
receive electronic notification of land use applications within the geographical area that includes
the site of the land use action, all property owners of record within the notification area as
specified in Section 111.350, and any person who is adversely affected or aggrieved by the
decision.  Notification shall be mailed within ten days after action is taken on the application.
However, failure to receive notice does not affect the validity of the action. [Amended by Ordinance 97-9
and 09-02]
111.275.  ZONE CHANGE CRITERIA. Pursuant to Section 111.160, a zone change may be
approved, provided that the request satisfies all applicable requirements of this ordinance, and
provided that with written findings, the applicant(s) clearly demonstrate compliance with the
following criteria:
(A) The proposed zone is appropriate for th e comprehensive plan land use designation on
the property and is consistent with the purpose and policies for the applicable
comprehensive plan land use classification;
(B) The proposal conforms with the pu rpose statement of the proposed zone;
(C) The uses allowed in the proposed designa tion will not significantly adversely affect
allowed uses on adjacent lands;
(D) Adequate public facilities,  services, and transportation networks are in place, or are
planned to be provided concurrently with the development of the property;
 111-12

(E) The proposed change is appropriate taking into consideration the following:
(1) Surrounding land uses,
(2) The density and pattern of  development in the area,
(3)  Any changes which may have occurred in  the vicinity to support the proposed
amendment;
(F) The proposal complies with any applicable intergovernmental agreement pertaining
to urban growth boundaries and urbanizable land; and
(G) The proposal complies with Oregon Revi sed Statutes, all applicable statewide
planning goals and associated administrative rules.  If an exception to one or more of
the goals is necessary, the exception criteria in Oregon Administrative Rules,
Chapter 660, Division 4 shall apply.
[Amended by Ordinance 98-3]
(H) The road function, classifi cation, capacity and existing and projected traffic volumes
have been considered. To allow comprehensive plan map and zone map amendments
that may generate trips up to the planned capacity of the transportation system,  Polk
County will consider road function, classification, road capacity and existing and
projected traffic volumes, as criteria for comprehensive plan map and zone map
amendments. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
111.280.  APPEAL AND REMAND CONSIDERATION PROCEDURES.
(A) An appeal may be filed by any person w hose interests are affected adversely or who
is aggrieved by action on an application under Section 111.240.  An appeal must be
filed with the Community Development Department within 12 days after the mailing
of notice to the applicant. [Amended by Ordinances 09-02, 10-04, and 11-02]
(B) On receiving an appeal or request by th e applicant for reconsideration of a land use
application on remand from the Land Use Board of Appeals, the Community
Development Department shall deliver to the Board the application and all other
documents constituting the entire record of the action under appeal or remand.
[Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(C) Upon receipt of an appeal filed with the Community Development Department of a
decision by the Planning Director or request by the applicant for reconsideration of a
land use application on remand from the Land Use Board of Appeals, the Board of
Commissioners shall review the matter and thereafter set the matter for a public
hearing and cause notice of the time and place of the hearing to be given as provided
under Section 111.340.  The public hearing, as determined by the Board of
Commissioners, will be conducted by either the Hearings Officer or the Board. The
decision resulting from this public hearing shall constitute the final county decision.
Decisions of the Hearings Officer shall thereafter be ratified by the Board of
Commissioners as part of the Board’s Consent agenda.
[Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(D)  Upon receipt of an appeal filed with the Community Development Department of a
decision by the Hearings Officer after a first evidentiary hearing, the Board of
Commissioners shall review the matter and thereafter either ratify the Hearings
Officer’s decision or set the matter for a public hearing and cause notice of the time
and place of the hearing to be given as provided under Section 111.340.  The public
hearing will be conducted by the Board of Commissioners. The Board’s ratification
of the Hearings Officer’s decision or the Board’s decision after holding a public
hearing shall constitute the final county decision.
[Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(E) The Planning Director shall send notice of  a public hearing under subsections (C) or
(D) of this section to all groups that are registered with the Planning Division to
receive electronic notification of land use applications within the geographical area
 111-13

that includes the site of the land use action, all property owners of record within the
notification area as specified in Section 111.350, and any person who is adversely
affected or aggrieved by the decision.  A hearing may be continued from time to time
if the Board or Hearings Officer considers it advisable. [Amended by Ordinances 09-02 and 11-
02]
(F) The appeal or request for reconsid eration on remand shall be accompanied by
payment of a fee, specified in the County's fee resolution, to defray the cost of the
hearing. [Amended by Ordinances 09-02 and 11-02]
(G) Filing of an appeal stays all proceedings by all parties in connection with the matter
appealed until the Board of Commissioners or Hearings Officer has made a decision
on the appeal. [Amended by Ordinances 89-1, 97-9, and 11-02]
111.290.  CALL OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
(A) Two or more members of the Polk C ounty Board of Commissioners may call up an
action, which is not an appeal decision, by the Polk County Planning Director or the
Hearings Officer.  However, the call must be made at the first meeting after notice of
the decision is presented. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(B) On receiving a call of the Board of Commissioners, the Community Development
Department shall deliver to the Board the application and all other documents
constituting the entire record of the action under appeal or remand. [Amended by Ordinance
11-02]
(C) The Board of Commissioners shall set th e matter for a public hearing and cause
notice of the time and place of the hearing to be given as provided under Section
111.340. The public hearing, as determined by the Board of Commissioners, will be
conducted by either the Hearings Officer or the Board. The decision resulting from
this public hearing shall constitute the final county decision. Decisions of the
Hearings Officer shall thereafter be ratified by the Board of Commissioners as part
of the Board’s Consent agenda. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(D) The Planning Director shall send notice of a public hearing under subsection (C) of
this section to all groups that are registered with the Planning Division to receive
electronic notification of land use applications within the geographical area that
includes the site of the land use action, all property owners of record within the
notification area as specified in Section 111.350, and all others who received notice
of the Planning Director’s or Hearings Officer’s decision that has been called. A
hearing may be continued from time to time if the Board or Hearings Officer
considers it advisable.
[Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(E) A call by the Board of Commissioners st ays all proceedings by all parties in
connection with the matter until the Board of Commissioners or Hearings Officer has
made a decision on the call. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
111.300.  ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
(A) Pursuant to Section 111.290,  the Polk County Board of Commissioners may review
any action, which is not an appeal decision, of the Polk County Polk County
Planning Director or the Hearings Officer. The Board may remand the matter for
further investigation and consideration, in which case the Planning Director or
Hearings Officer shall conduct such further investigation as is necessary and report
findings and conclusions in writing to the Board. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(B) Pursuant to Section 111.290, after conducting a public hearing to consider an action,
which is not an appeal decision, and finding that the facts therein stated do not
 111-14

warrant further hearing, the Board may summarily affirm the action. [Amended by
Ordinance 11-02]
(C) Pursuant to Section 111.290,  after conducting a public hearing to consider an action
on an appeal or non-appeal decision, the Board may affirm or reverse wholly or
partly, or modify, any action, and may impose such additional conditions as it finds
warranted by the facts. The Board’s decision shall constitute the final local decision.
[Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
111.310.  EFFECTIVE DATE.  Land use actions granted under section 111.240 become
effective on the 12th day after mailing of the notice of the decision or after the regular meeting of
the Polk County Board of Commissioners following such mailing, whichever is later.  However,
if the matter has been called up by the Board under Section 111.290, or the matter has been
appealed under Section 111.280, the land use action does not become effective until the Board or
Hearings Officer has taken final action.  A final county decision by the Board of Commissioners
or Hearings Officer shall not be effective until 21 days after mailing of the decision.  An appeal
of a land use action by the Board of Commissioners or the Hearings Officer to the Land Use
Board of Appeals stays all proceedings by all parties in connection with the matter until the
appeal has been resolved. [Amended by Ordinances 97-9 and 11-02]
111.320.  HOLDING PUBLIC HEARINGS.  Any hearing shall be public and may be
continued or postponed from time to time.  At any such hearing all persons shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
111.330.  APPEARANCES OF INTERESTED PERSONS, REMONSTRANCES.  Any
person or persons desiring to be heard for or against the subject of the hearing may file with the
governing body, Hearings Officer or the Planning Commission, whichever holds the hearing, a
statement in writing, or may appear and respond orally at the hearing, either in person or by
authorized representative.  Written remonstrances or objections to the proposed zone change,
variance, conditional use or other subject of hearing, may be filed with the hearings body.
[Amended by Ordinance 88-21]
111.340.  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING; CONTENT.  Upon the fixing of the time of
public hearing on all matters before the appropriate hearing body, the Director shall give notice
as set forth in this chapter.  The notice shall:
(A) Explain the nature of the application and the proposed use or uses which could be
authorized;
(B) List the applicable crite ria from the ordinance and the plan that apply to the
application at issue;
(C) Set forth the street address or other ea sily understood geographical reference to the
subject property.
(D) State the date, time a nd location of the hearing.
(E) State that failure of an is sue to be raised in a hearing, in person or in writing, or
failure to provide sufficient specificity to afford the hearings body an opportunity to
respond to the issue, precludes appeal to the Land Use Board of Appeals on that
issue;
(F) State that a copy of the application, all documents and evidence relied upon by the
applicant, and applicable criteria, are available for inspection at no cost and will be
provided at reasonable cost;
(G) State that a copy of the staf f report will be available for inspection at no cost at least
seven days prior to the hearing, and will be provided at a reasonable cost; and
 111-15

include a general explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony and
the procedure for conduct of hearings.  [Amended by Ordinances 89-17 and 88-21]
(H) Include the name of a local government representative to contact and the phone
number where additional information may be obtained. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
111.350.  MAILING OF NOTICE; NOTIFICATION AREA; FAILURE TO RECEIVE
NOTICE.
(A) Notices of public hearing to be held by the hearing body, notice of an
application to be processed as a Type B procedure pursuant to Section
111.240 (B), or notice of any action taken on an application by the Planning
Director or Hearings Officer shall be mailed to the applicant and to owners of
record on the most recent property tax assessment roll where such property is
located:
(1)  Within 100 feet of the property which is the subject of the notice, where the
subject property is wholly or partly within an urban growth boundary;
(2)  Within 250 feet of the property which is the subject of the notice, where the
subject property is outside an urban growth boundary and not within a farm or
forest zone; or
(3)  Within 750 feet of the property which is the subject of the notice, where the
subject property is within a farm or forest zone.
(B) Notices of public hearing to be held  by the hearing body shall be mailed 20 days
prior to the date of the hearing.
(C) Failure to receive notice by mail as provi ded in this section shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings if the County can demonstrate by affidavit that such
notice was given.
(D) Notice of an applicati on to be processed as a Type B procedure pursuant under
Section 111.240 (B) and public hearing notices shall be mailed to all groups that are
registered with the Planning Division to receive electronic notification of land use
applications within the geographical area that includes the site of the land use action.
[Amended by Ordinances 89-17, 97-9 and 09-02]
(E) Notice of a public hearing sh all be mailed to the owners of public-use airports if the
property subject to the land use permit or zone change is located:
(1) Within 5,000 feet of  a visual airport.
(2) Within 10,000 feet of an instrument airport. [Amended by Ordinance 98-5]
(F) Notice shall be mailed to the Oregon De partment of Transportation for any land use
change or development requiring County review and approval which requires access
to a state highway or which is located within 500 feet of a state highway. [Amended by
Ordinance 11-02]
111.360.  POSTING NOTICE.
(A) Notice of all public hearings required by th e provisions of this ordinance, except for
legislative text amendments, shall be given by posting a sign on the subject property
within 10 feet of whatever boundary line of such land abuts the most traveled public
road or street, and if no public road abuts thereon, then facing in such a manner as
may be most readily seen by the public. [Amended by Ordinance 11-02]
(B) It shall be the responsibil ity of the applicant to provide the sign frame and place
such notice at least 20 days prior to the public hearing.  A placard with printed
information on the proposed change shall be provided by the Planning Director
 111-16

for the sign structure, and shall be obtained for mounting by the applicant or his
representative prior to posting.
(C) The posted  sign shall be removed by the applicant or the applicant's representative
within five days after final action on the application. [Amended by Ordinance 89-17]
111.370.  PUBLISHING NOTICES.  Notice of all public hearings required by the provisions of
this ordinance shall be given by publishing such notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county at least once not less than 20 days prior to said hearing.  [Amended by Ordinances 219, 88-21, and 11-02]
111.380.  CONDUCT OF HEARING; CONTINUANCE; EXTENSION; REOPENING
RECORD.
(A) At the beginning of a hearing under the Comprehensive Plan or land use regulations
of Polk County, a statement shall be made to those in attendance that:
(1) Lists the applicable substantive criteria;
(2)  States that testimony and evidence mu st be directed toward the criteria
described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, or other criteria in the Plan or
implementing ordinances which the person believes to apply to the decision;
and
(3)  States that failure to raise an issue with sufficient specificity to afford the
hearings body an opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to the
Land Use Board of Appeals.
(B) If additional documents or evidence in s upport of an application is submitted at a
public hearing, any party shall be entitled to a continuance of the hearing.  Such a
continuance is not subject to the limitations of ORS 215.428.
(C) Unless there is a continuance, if a partic ipant so requests before the conclusion of the
initial evidentiary hearing, the record shall remain open for at least seven days after
the hearing.  Such an extension shall not be subject to the limitations of ORS
215.428.
(D) When the Board of Commissioners, Planning Commission or Hearings Officer
reopens a record to admit new evidence or testimony, any person may raise new
issues which relate to the new evidence, testimony or criteria for decision-making
which apply to the matter at issue.
[Amended by Ordinance 89-17]