47-1
 CHAPTER 47 1994

 ALARMS

 47.010  TITLE.

 This Chapter shall be known as the Polk County Alarm Response Ordinance. [Ord. 94-12,
Sec.2]

 47.020  DEFINITIONS.

 For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms are defined:

 (1)   "Alarm" means any mechanical or electrical device or assembly of equipment,
designed or arranged to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity requiring urgent
attention and to which the police are expected to respond.

 (2)  "Alarm User" means any person, firm, partnership, or corporation of any kind in
control of any building, premises, structure, or facility upon which an alarm is maintained.

 (3)   "False alarm" means an alarm signal to  which the Sheriff's Office responds with any
emergency service personnel or equipment when a situation requiring a response by the Sheriff's
Office does not in fact exist and which signal is caused by the inadvertence, negligence, or
intentional act or omission of an alarm user, or a malfunction of the alarm. The following shall not
be considered false alarms:

 (a)  Alarms caused by the testing, repair, or malfunction of telephone equipment
or lines, where the Polk County Sheriff's Office has been notified in advance
of said testing or repairing.

 (b)  Alarms caused by the testing, repa ir, or malfunction of electrical utility
equipment or lines, where the Polk County Sheriff's Office has been notified
in advance of said testing or repairing.

 (c)  Alarms caused by an Act of God, including floods, earthquakes, windstorms,
thunder, or lightning.

 (d)  Alarms caused by an illegal entry of which there is visible evidence.

 (e)  When the Polk County Sheriff's Office is notified before an emergency
service vehicle or personnel arrive on scene that the alarm they are
responding to is a false alarm.

 47.030   FEES.

 Alarm users shall pay a fee for each false alar m response by the Polk County Sheriff's Office
during a calendar year according to the annual fee schedule adopted by Resolution by the Board of
Commissioners.

 47-2

 47.040   CALCULATION AND RECORDS.

 The Records Division of the Polk County Sheriff's Office shall keep a written account of the
location of all false alarms, the number of false alarms per location, and if a fee was assessed. This
written account shall be updated as the reports on the false alarms are given to the Records Division.
The appropriate response to each false alarm sha ll be taken at this tim e in accordance with the
existing annual fee schedule.

 47.050   COLLECTION OF FEES.

 All fees resulting from false alarms shall be paid at the Records Division window in the Polk
County Sheriff's Office within thirty (30) days of invoice.

 47.060   LOSS OF SERVICE.

 Upon a showing of more than eight (8) false alarms during a calendar year, or refusal to pay
false alarm fees, the Sheriff may elect upon written notice to the alarm user to discontinue alarm
response service. [Ord. 94-12, Sec. 2]