1-1
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
10.01 Title of code
10.02 Interpretation
10.03 Application to future ordinances
10.04 Captions
10.05 Definitions
10.06 Rules of interpretation
10.07 Severability
10.08 Reference to other sections
10.09 Reference to offices
10.10 Errors and omissions
10.11 Official time
10.12 Reasonable time
10.13 Ordinances repealed
10.14 Ordinances unaffected
10.15 Effective date of ordinances
10.16 Repeal or modification of ordinance
10.17 Ordinances which amend or
supplement code
10.18 Section histories; statutory references
10.99 General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
This codification of ordinances by and for
Umatilla County shall be designated as the Code of
Umatilla County and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or
implication required, the same rules of construction,
definition, and application shall govern the interpreta-
tion of this code as those governing the interpretation
of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE
ORDINANCES.
All provisions of Title I compatible with future
legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted
amending or supplementing this code unless otherwise
specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
Headings and captions used in this code other
than the title, chapter, and section numbers are
employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
(A) General rule.  Words and phrases shall be
taken in their plain, or ordinary and usual sense.
However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
understood according to their technical import.
(B)
Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
CODE, THIS CODE  or THIS CODE OF
ORDINANCES.  This county code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles,
chapters, or sections.
COUNTY.  Umatilla County, Oregon.
MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
MONTH.  A calendar month.
OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and
in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMIS-
SION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county
unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
PERSON.  Extends to and includes person,
persons, firm, corporation, copartnership, trustee,
lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms
PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to any
unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or
members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
1-2
PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or
next after, respectively.
SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a
mark when the person cannot write.
STATE.  The State of Oregon.
SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter,
designated in this code by a heading in the chapter
analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the
subject matter of the heading.  Not all chapters have
subchapters.
WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters,
or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise
expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
The construction of all ordinances of this county
shall be by the following rules, unless such construc-
tion is plainly repugnant to the intent of the legisla-
tive body or of the context of the same ordinance:
(A)
AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall
include the other as if written “and/or,” if the sense
requires it.
(B)
Acts by assistants.   When a statute or
ordinance requires an act to be done which, by law, an
agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of
such act by an authorized agent or deputy.
(C)
Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words
denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to
include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in
the present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
(D)
General term.   A general term following
specific enumeration of terms is not to be limited to
the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this code as now or later
amended or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not
affect other provisions that can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
Whenever in one section reference is made to
another section hereof, such reference shall extend and
apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless
the subject matter is changed or materially altered by
the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of
this county exercising the powers, duties, or functions
contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or ch ange in the official title of
the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the
misspelling of any words; the omission of any word or
words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected; the use of a word or words to
which no meaning can be attached; or the use of a
word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling
shall be corrected and such word or words supplied,
omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the
same effect as though the correct words were
contained in the text as originally published.  No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
The official time, as established by applicable
1-3
state/federal laws, shall be the official time within this
county for the transaction of all county business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
(A) In all cases where an ordinance requires an
act to be done in a reasonable time or requires
reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is
necessary for a prompt performance of such act or the
giving of such notice.
(B) The time within which an act is to be done,
as herein provided, shall be computed by excluding
the first day and including the last.  If the last day be
Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
This code, from and after its effective date, shall
contain all of the provisions of a general nature
pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the
subjects treated by this code shall be deemed repealed
from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
All ordinances of a temporary or special nature
and all other ordinances pertaining to subjects not
embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
The effective date for ordinances is set out in the
Umatilla County Charter, Article III, Section 7(4).
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF
ORDINANCE.
(A) Whenever any ordinance or part of an
ordinance shall be repealed or modified by a
subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an
ordinance thus repealed or modified shall continue in
force until the due  publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying it when publication is required
to give effect thereto, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
(B) No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture,
or penalty instituted, created, given, secured, or
accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged,
but may be prosecuted, enjoyed, and recovered as fully
as if the ordinance had continued in force unless it is
otherwise expressly provided.
(C) When any ordinance repealing a former
ordinance, clause, or provision shall be itself repealed,
the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly
provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR
SUPPLEMENT CODE.
(A) If the legislative body shall desire to amend
any existing chapter or section of this code, the chapter
or section shall be specifically repealed and a new
chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.
(B) Any ordinance which is proposed to add to
the existing code a new chapter or section shall
indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section.  In
addition to such indication thereof as may appear in
the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY
REFERENCES.
(A) As histories for the code sections, the
specific number and passage date of the original
ordinance, and any amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.  Example:
(Ord. 60-01, passed 5-13- 60; Ord. 70-01, passed
1-1-70; Ord. 80-01, passed 1-1-80; Ord. 85-01, passed
1-1-85)
(B) (1) If a statutory cite is included in the
1-4
history, this indicates that the text of the section reads
substantially the same as the statute.
Example:  (ORS 192.410)  (Ord. 80-01, passed
1-17-80; Ord. 85-01, passed 1-1-85).
(2) If a statutory cite is set forth as a
“statutory reference” following the text of the section,
this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute
for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
This county shall make av ailable to any person for
inspection or copying all public records, unless otherwise
exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
For provisions concerning the inspection of public records,
  see ORS 192.420
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
(A) Any person, firm, or corporation who
violates any provision of this code for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, conform to the following classifications:
(1)
Class 1.   For all ordinance violations
not otherwise specified, a maximum fine of $500 for
each violation and a maximum $1,000 fine for each
continuing violation.
(2)
Class 2.  For violations related to ORS
Chapter 92 on subdivisions and partitionings, a
minimum fine of $50 and a maximum fine of $500 for
each violation, or imprisonment in the county jail for
not less than 25 days nor more than 50 days, or both.
(3)
Class 3.  For violations of stop work/
use orders, conditions on permit approvals/orders, or
consent agreements, and for failure to appear, a
maximum $500 fine for each violation.
(B) Except for Class 1 violations, each calendar
date on which a violation occurs constitutes a separate
violation.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 3-26-90)
Statutory reference:
Penalties for violations of county ordinances, see
  ORS 92.990 and 203.065(1)