11-5
CHAPTER 111:  PAWNBROKERS
Section
111.01 Definitions
111.02 Compliance with state law required;
fee
111.03 Records of articles received
required
111.04 Property sales
111.05 Exemptions
111.99 Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
PAWNBROKER.  PAWNBROKER shall be
defined as provided in ORS 726.010.
BUSINESSES THAT DEAL IN OR SELL
USED (SECOND HAND) PROPERTY.   A n y
person engaged in the business of, conducting,
managing, purchasing, transferring, holding or
selling used or second hand property.  It includes,
but is not limited to, antique dealers, precious
metal and gem dealers, scrap and junkyard
operators and used and second hand store operators
and dealers.  It does not include used vehicle
sellers and dealers, livestock auctions, bankruptcy
or court appointed trustees, or private persons
conducting "yard sales" or similar private sales of
personal property.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 4-2-97)
§ 111.02  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW
REQUIRED; FEE.
There shall be no fee required by the
provisions of this chapter. Pawnbrokers shall
obtain and maintain a valid state pawnbroker's
license pursuant to ORS Chapter 726.  Other used
property businesses shall, in addition to complying
with the provisions of this chapter, comply with all
other state statutes, regulations and requirements.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 4-2-97)
§ 111.03  RECORDS OF ARTICLES
RECEIVED
REQUIRED.
(A) All pawnbrokers and other used property
businesses covered by the provisions of this
chapter shall keep a record, legibly handwritten in
ink or typewritten, which record shall contain:
(1) A description of all goods, articles or
things purchased, pawned, pledged or received;
(2) The amount of money pledged,
advanced or paid for the articles described in (1)
above;
(3) The date of pawning, pledging, or
receiving the goods, articles or things;
(4) The name, residence, and signature
of the person pawning, pledging, selling or
delivering the goods, articles, or things received.
(5) The weight of any material that is
customarily sold by weight.
(6) A business covered by the
provisions of this chapter that is in receipt of a
quantity of relatively low priced items not
separately identifiable by serial number or
description may describe these items in general:
e.g., "a bag of used children's clothing including
jeans, shoes and sweatshirts"; or "a bag of used
kitchen utensils including tupperware, pots and
pans".  This type of description may not be used to
record receipt of more valuable kitchen items such
as silverware and china.
(B) Any entry made in the record book shall
not be obliterated, erased or defaced.  The record,
as well as the articles pledged, pawned, sold or
received, shall be open during regular business
hours to inspection by any law enforcement officer
and the District Attorney.
(C) In addition to the record book and any
other records required, a pawnbroker or other used
property business shall, at the time of taking,
11-6
receiving or purchasing a ny article, describe the
article on a form provided by the Sheriff's
Department, or on a form generated by the
receiving business that provides the same
information as the Sheriff's form.  A copy of this
form is attached hereto and incorporated herein.
The pawnbroker or other business regulated by this
chapter shall fill in all the blank spaces on this
form with such data as is required by the form and
require the person transferring the property to sign
his/her name to the form.  Further, property
regulated by this chapter shall only be accepted
after the transferor has presented proper
identification.  During regular business hours of
each business day, every person regulated by the
provisions of this section shall allow the Sheriff or
his designee to take one copy of the completed
forms describing articles purchased or accepted
during that business day.
(D) To aid businesses regulated by this
chapter in identifying stolen property before it is
pawned or otherwise accepted, the Sheriff will
periodically provide these businesses with stolen
property lists.
(E) The records required by this section must
be maintained by all businesses regulated by this
chapter for a period of not less than one year.  The
information that is required to be furnished to law
enforcement officers pursuant to this section is to
aid in the investigation of the theft of property.
Since the information required by this section may
relate to the personal privacy of persons doing
business with such dealers, as well as certain trade
secrets and practices of such dealers, such
information shall be considered confidential and
privileged from disclosure to the maximum extent
possible under applicable laws, to all persons other
than the District Attorney and law enforcement
officers.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 4-2-97)
§ 111.04  PROPERTY SALES.
(A) No property purchased or received by
any dealer covered by the provisions of this
chapter shall be sold for a period of ten days after
purchase or receipt. The only exception to this ten
day rule is that the person that pawned, pledged or
sold the property may retrieve it during this ten day
period. Such property shall be maintained in
substantially the same form as purchased or
received and shall not be commingled so as to
preclude identification during this ten day holding
period.
(B) Whenever a law enforcement officer,
upon reasonable belief that specific property is the
subject of theft, notifies any dealer covered by the
provisions of this chapter not to dispose of any
specifically described property, that property shall
not be sold, exchanged, dismantled, or otherwise
disposed of for a period not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 4-2-97)
§ 111.05  EXEMPTIONS.
(A) Any entity that believes it should be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter may
make application for exemption in writing to the
Sheriff stating the reasons therefore: e.g., an
auctioneer, an estate sale, or a non-profit charitable
organization such as a church youth group that
accepts only donated property for resale at a fund
raising rummage sale.
(B) The Sheriff will act upon all requests for
exemption and provide a written response thereto
within five working days of receipt of the request.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 4-2-97)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
(A) Violation(s) of this chapter are declared
a nuisance under the provisions of ORS
203.065(3).  Pursuant to  ORS 203.065, violators
may be prosecuted by the District Attorney or
made the defendant in a civil proceeding for
redress of a violation, or both.
(B) In accordance with ORS 203.065(1),
violation(s) of this chapter shall be punishable,
upon conviction, by a fine of not more than $500
for a noncontinuing offense and a fine of not more
than $1,000 for a continuing offense.  These
penalties are in addition to penalties that may be
imposed for violation(s) of any state or federal law.
(Ord. 97-01, passed 4-2-97)
11-7