3-13
CHAPTER 33:  SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT
Section
Disposition of Unclaimed Property
33.01 Sheriff to submit inventory of
property and request for
disposition
33.02 Disposition by sale
33.03 Disposition by transfer to county
33.04 Claims by owner subsequent to
sale; Sheriff not liable
Drug and Narcotics Trafficking;
Property Forfeiture
33.15 Title
33.16 Findings
33.17 Purpose; intent
33.18 Definitions
33.19 Enumeration of property to be
forfeited
33.20 Seizure of property without
issuance of court process
33.21 In rem forfeiture proceeding;
notice to owner; owner entitled to
trial by jury
33.22 County to hold property during
proceedings
33.23 Judgment of forfeiture; disposition
of property
33.24 Property owner unaware of illegal
activity exempted from forfeiture
33.25 Application of provisions
Procedures for the Inventory
of Personal Property of Inmates
of the County Jail
33.35 Inmates procedures
33.36 Frisk search
33.37 Strip search
33.38 Corrections searches
33.39 Personal property inventory
DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 33.01  SHERIFF TO SUBMIT INVENTORY
OF
PROPERTY AND REQUEST FOR
DISPOSITION.
Whenever the Sheriff of the county has any
property in his possession, the ownership of which
is unknown, and which is unclaimed for six
months (180 days) after the said property came
into his possession, he shall, unless the disposition
of such property is otherwise specifically provided
for by law, submit an inventory of the property to
the Board of County Commissioners.  The Sheriff
shall also submit a request to dispose of the
property as provided in this subchapter and the
County Commissioners shall act upon this request
within 30 days after its receipt.
(Ord. 79-15, passed 4-18-79)
§ 33.02  DISPOSITION BY SALE.
The Sheriff may request to have the property
disposed of by public sale.
(A) Notice.  If the Board approves the
request, the Sheriff shall post written or printed
notice of sale in three public places within the
county at least 10 days before the sale.  The notice
shall describe the property to be sold with
reasonable specificity and shall  state  the time and
place of public  sale.   These
notice requirements shall not preclude the Board of
County Commissioners from giving additional
notice through the various news media.
(B)
Sale.  All sales of property shall be by
auction, at which the property shall be awarded to
the highest bidder.
(C)
Claims by owner.   Until the date of the
sale, the property may be claimed at the Sheriff's
Office.  If ownership is proved to the satisfaction
of the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall give the property to
3-14
the owner, and cancel the sale insofar as the
claimed property is concerned.
(D) Government employees not to bid.
Members of the county government, including
officials and employees, shall not be allowed to bid
at the sale.
(E)
Proceeds to General Fund.  The Sheriff
shall conduct the sale and shall deposit the
proceeds thereof with County Finance to the credit
of the General Fund.
(Ord. 79-15, passed 4-18-79)
§ 33.03  DISPOSITION BY TRANSFER TO
COUNTY.
In lieu of a sale of the property under § 33.02
of this subchapter, the Sheriff, with the approval of
the Board of County Commissioners, may transfer
any portion of unclaimed property to the county for
use by the county or other governmental agencies,
or by destruction after giving notice of transfer or
destruction in the same manner as set forth in
§ 33.02(A) of this subchapter.
(Ord. 79-15, passed 4-18-79)
§ 33.04  CLAIMS BY OWNER SUBSEQUENT
TO SALE; SHERIFF NOT LIABLE.
If the property is sold as provided herein and
if within  six  months  after the sale, the owner  of
the
property files with the Board of County
Commissioners a claim for the property, proving
his right to the same to the satisfaction of the
Board, the Board shall direct that the amount
received for the property, less expenses of the sale,
shall be paid to the owner from the county
treasury.  The Board shall not approve any claims
filed more than six months after the sale.  If the
property is transferred to the county or other
governmental agency in lieu of sale, it may be
claimed by the lawful owner thereof at any time
within one year from the transfer to the county, or
other governmental agency. The Sheriff in
disposing of property in the manner provided
herein shall not be liable to the owner thereof.
(Ord. 79-15, passed 4-18-79)
DRUG AND NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING;
PROPERTY FORFEITURE
§ 33.15  TITLE.
This subchapter shall be known as the “Drug
and Narcotics Trafficking Forfeiture Ordinance.”
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.16  FINDINGS.
The Board of County Commissioners finds
that:
(A) When property that constitutes the
proceeds or instrumentalities of illegal drug or
narcotics activity is seized from persons arrested in
connection with criminal proceeding involving
those activities it frequently must be returned to the
person from whom it was seized at the conclusion
of the criminal proceedings; and
(B) This property is often used in connection
with additional illegal drug or narcotics activity.
Thus, the return of the property serves to
encourage and perpetuate the commission of crime
in the county.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.17  PURPOSE; INTENT.
The Board of County Commissioners
therefore declares that to protect the safety and
welfare of county residents it is in the best interest
of the county to:
(A) Cripple illegal drug and narcotics
trafficking and activity within this county by
depriving narcotics dealers, and those persons
dealing with them, of the instrumentalities and
proceeds of their activity; and
(B) Otherwise deter such activity and remove
the operating instrumentalities, profits, and
proceeds of illegal narcotics transactions from
dealers; and
3-15
(C) Use the forfeited property to further law
enforcement and criminal prosecutions.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.18  DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
CONSPIRACY.  As defined in ORS 161.450.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.  As defined
in ORS 475.005(6), except that this shall not
include less than one  avoirdupoi s ounce of
marijuana.
DELIVER or DELIVERY.  As defined in
ORS 475.005(8).
FACILITATE.  The property must have had
some direct connection to, or be instrumental in,
the commission of the underlying illegal activity
which this subchapter seeks to prevent.
MANUFACTURE.  As defined in ORS
475.005(14).
MARIJUANA.  As defined in ORS
475.005(15).
POSSESSION OF CONTROLLED SUB-
STANCES WITH THE INTENT TO
DISTRIBUTE.
  As defined as a federal offense at
21 USC 841(a)(1).
PRODUCTION.  As defined in ORS
475.005(19).
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.  To manufacture
or deliver a controlled substance or substances or
the possession of controlled substance or
substances with the intent to deliver.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.19  ENUMERATION OF PROPERTY TO
BE FORFEITED.
Any person who engages in or enters into a
conspiracy to engage in prohibited activity within
the county shall forfeit to the county the following
described property:
(A) All controlled substances which are
intended for or have been manufactured or
delivered as defined in § 33.18.
(B) All raw materials, products, containers,
equipment, books, records, research materials
(including formulas, microfilms, tapes, and data)
of any kind which are used, or intended to be used,
to manufacture, compound, store, process, or
deliver any controlled substance.
(C) All conveyances, including aircraft,
vehicles, or vessels which are used to manufacture
or deliver or in any manner to facilitate the
manufacture or delivery of any controlled
substance or any such conveyance which is used to
transport or conceal any controlled substance.
(D) All moneys, negotiable instruments,
securities, or other things of value furnished or
exchanged or intended to be furnished or
exchanged by or to any person to facilitate any
prohibited activity, and all proceeds and profits
traceable to such furnishment, exchange or
prohibited activity.
(E) All proceeds and profits and things of
value traceable to any prohibited activity.
(F) All real property including any right,
title, or interest in the whole of any lot or tract of
land and any appurtenan ces or improvements,
which is used to commit or facilitate the
commission of a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.20  SEIZURE OF PROPERTY WITHOUT
ISSUANCE OF COURT PROCESS.
Any property subject to forfeiture to the
county under this subchapter may be seized by any
law enforcement officer on behalf of the county
without issuance of court process when:
(A) The seizure is incident to an arrest or
search pursuant to a search warrant or an
3-16
inspection under an administrative search; or
(B) The property subject to seizure has been
the subject of a judgment in favor of the county in
a forfeiture proceeding under this subchapter; or
(C) A law enforcement officer lawfully
seized the property pursuant to ORS 133.525 to
133.703, and has probable cause to believe that the
property has been used or is intended to be used in
or to facilitate prohibited activity as defined by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.21  IN REM FORFEITURE
PROCEEDING;
NOTICE TO OWNER; OWNER ENTITLED
TO
TRIAL BY JURY.
(A) In the event of a seizure pursuant to this
subchapter, the District Attorney, acting in the
name of the county, may institute an in rem
forfeiture proceeding to obtain a judgment of
forfeiture against the seized property.
(B) The District Attorney shall, not less than
15 days  before bringing a forfeiture proceeding
against
any property, notify any record owner of the
property that he intends to bring such an action.
Then notice may be given by personal notice or by
certified or registered mail to the last known
address of the record owner.
(C) The proceeding shall be a civil
proceeding in an Oregon court of competent
jurisdiction.
(D) Any proceeding pursuant to this
subchapter shall be instituted within 30 days after
the property is seized on behalf of the county.
(E) The owner of the property is entitled to a
jury trial in any action brought pursuant to this
subchapter.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.22  COUNTY TO HOLD PROPERTY
DURING PROCEEDINGS.
(A) Prior to obtaining any judgment of
forfeiture any money, securities, or negotiable
instruments that are not required or retained for
evidence in other pending litigation shall be
deposited with County Finance Director pending
the outcome of forfeiture proceedings.
(B) Any other property may be kept in the
custody of the county.  The District Attorney may
hold the property for the county or may deliver it
to the County Sheriff for safe keeping until a
forfeiture judgment is obtained.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.23  JUDGMENT OF FORFEITURE;
DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
If a judgment of forfeiture is obtained the
property shall be disposed of as follows:
(A) At the discretion of the Sheriff, the
forfeited property may be retained for use in law
enforcement activities.  When the Sheriff
determines that the property is no longer needed
for law enforcement purposes, it shall be sold in
accordance with divisions (B) and (C) of this
section.
(B) Property except money, securities, and
negotiable instruments, which is not required by
law to be destroyed and which is not harmful to the
public shall be sold by the Sheriff.  The sale shall
be in any commercially feasible manner which is
likely to obtain a reasonable selling price.  County
employees and their immediate families shall not
be entitled to purchase any of the forfeited
property.
(C) Umatilla County shall deposit the property
or proceeds distributed to Umatilla County under
Oregon Constitution Article XV 10(7)(c) to the
General Fund of Umatilla County to be available
for all lawful General Fund purposes.
(D) In the event any section, clause, sentence
or provision of this section should be declared for
any reason to be invalid, such declaration of
invalidity shall not affect the validity of any other
3-17
section, clause, sentence or provision of this
section that can be given effect without such
invalid part or parts.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87; Ord. 2002-09, passed
10-2-2002)
§ 33.24  PROPERTY OWNER UNAWARE OF
ILLEGAL ACTIVITY EXEMPTED FROM
FORFEITURE.
No property shall be forfeited pursuant to this
subchapter to the extent of an owner who did not
consent to or was not aware of the use of the
property in the prohibited activity.  Specifically, no
right of any lien holder or co-owner of the property
may be affected by a forfeiture pursuant to this
subchapter if the co-owner or the lien holder was
not aware of or did not consent to the prohibited
activity.
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
§ 33.25  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
This subchapter shall not apply to those
unlawful acts defined in ORS 166.720(1) and (2).
(Ord. 87-15, passed 4-1-87)
PROCEDURES FOR THE INVENTORY
OF PERSONAL PROPERTY OF INMATES
OF THE COUNTY JAIL
§ 33.35  INMATES PROCEDURES.
Inmates booked into the Umatilla County Jail
will be searched and their personal property
inventoried, seized and held for safe keeping in
accordance with the procedures that follow.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-22-98)
§ 33.36  FRISK SEARCH.
All prisoners being held or booked into the
jail will be frisk searched by a corrections officer
prior to being booked and admitted to the jail.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-22-98)
§ 33.37  STRIP SEARCH.
(A) Inmates arrested for minor offenses may
only be strip searched if corrections officials have
a reasonable suspicion that the inmate is carrying
or concealing a weapon or contraband, or is
suffering from a communicable disease.  A
reasonable suspicion is less justification than is
necessary to authorize an arrest.  A minor offender
is one arrested for something other than a felony,
a Class A misdemeanor, or an offense involving
drugs or weapons.
(B) There must be an “individualized
suspicion” that a specific inmate arrested for a
minor offense is a threat to jail security or is
suffering from a communicable disease before a
strip search is justified.
(C) If a strip search is conducted on an
inmate being lodged for a minor offense, the book-
in officer must document the reason for the strip
search on a form designated for that purpose,
placing a copy in the inmate's file and submitting
a copy to the jail commander before the end of
his/her shift.
(D) Justification for a strip search on an
inmate arrested for a minor offense may include,
but is not limited to:
(1) Assaultive or combative behavior
during book-in.
(2) Smell of chemicals known to be
present in methamphetamine laboratories.
(3) An inmate that appears to be hiding
contraband by swallowing something during the
frisk search, or by attempting to avoid a search of
clothing during the frisk search.
(4) Evidence of prior use of drugs will
not justify a strip search, however, prior arrests or
convictions for drug use will justify a strip search.
(E) An inmate arrested for a felony, or a
misdemeanor involving drugs or weapons, will be
3-18
strip searched.
(F) Inmates will only be strip searched in a
private, clean, warm place that allows for privacy
from persons of the opposite sex and other
inmates.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-22-98)
§ 33.38  CORRECTIONS SEARCHES.
These searches may be conducted for the
following reasons:
(A) Health and sanitation in the jail.
(B) Safety and security of the jail.
(C) To inventory personal property of an
inmate.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-22-98)
§ 33.39  PERSONAL PROPERTY
INVENTORY.
A corrections officer will inventory all the
personal   property  of  an  inmate  and   record
the
inventory on the booking form.  The inmate will
sign a receipt for his/her personal property and
receive a duplicate copy of the signed receipt.  If
the inmate is unable to sign during book-in, he/she
will sign the receipt as soon as reasonably possible.
Personal property receipts will be maintained for at
least six months after the property is returned to
the inmate.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-22-98)