3-19
CHAPTER 34:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Criminal History Record Check Policy
34.01 Findings
34.02 Criminal offender information
check required
34.03 Maintenance of authorization
form; checks conducted by
Sheriff's Department; criminal
history record
34.04 Retention of criminal history
records; confidentiality
34.05 Hiring or appointing volunteers;
factors to be considered
CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD
CHECK POLICY
§ 34.01  FINDINGS.
(A) In order for the county government to
operate effectively, persons selected for
employment or as a public service volunteer with
the county must have the highest degree of citizen
and public trust and confidence.
(B) All county employees and public service
volunteers represent the county to its citizens.
Many county employees and volunteers have
responsibilities to regulate and maintain public
health and safety.  Most county employees have
the ability and authority to bind the county
contractually, have access to public funds and
property, and possess access to privileged and
proprietary information submitted to the county in
confidence.
(Ord. 95-09, passed 11-22-95)
§ 34.02  CRIMINAL OFFENDER
INFORMATION CHECK REQUIRED.
All applicants for employment and appointed
volunteers with the county will be required to
authorize the county to conduct a criminal offender
information check through the Oregon State Police
(OSP) Law Enforcement Data System (LEDS)
system.
(Ord. 95-09, passed 11-22-95)
§ 34.03  MAINTENANCE OF
AUTHORIZATION
FORM; CHECKS CONDUCTED BY
SHERIFF'S
DEPARTMENT; CRIMINAL HISTORY
RECORD.
(A) The criminal history authorization form
will be maintained by the Human Resources
Department who will request that the check be
conducted by the Sheriff's Department.
(B) A member of the Sheriff's Department
trained and authorized to perform criminal history
checks through the LEDS system will conduct the
check on the prospective employee or volunteer
and orally report to the Human Resources
Department that the applicant's record indicates
“no criminal record” or “criminal record.”  If the
applicant's record is reported as “criminal record,”
the Human Resources Department will, under
Oregon Administrative Rules 257-10-025(1)(c),
request a written criminal history report from the
OSP Identification Services Section and pay the
applicable fee for this service.  Human Resources
will make the written criminal history record
available to the employment or volunteer selecting
official for his or her consideration in making the
selection.
(Ord. 95-09, passed 11-22-95)
§ 34.04  RETENTION OF CRIMINAL
HISTORY
RECORDS; CONFIDENTIALITY
.
The written criminal history record on persons
that are not hired or appointed as a volunteer will
be retained in accordance with the requirements of
Oregon Administrative Rules 166-40-080 for a
period of three years and thereafter will be
destroyed by shredding.  The criminal history
3-20
record of applicants and volunteers with a criminal
history that are hired or appointed, will become a
part of the confidential personnel file of that
employee or volunteer.  Access to confidential
personnel files is limited to only authorized
persons who have an official need to access such
files that is sanctioned by law or regulation.
(Ord. 95-09, passed 11-22-95)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 34.05  HIRING OR APPOINTING
VOLUNTEERS; FACTORS TO BE
CONSIDERED.
(A) Applicants for employment or
appointment as a volunteer that have a felony
criminal history, or a hi story of conviction of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or theft,
will be closely examined by selecting officials to
determine if the applicant possesses the required
degree of citizen and public trust and confidence.
Each employment or volunteer selection will,
however, be made on an individual, case-by-case
basis, taking into account the applicant's
qualifications, the require ments of the particular
job or volunteer post applied for, and the results of
the criminal history check.  Factors such as the age
of an offender at the time of the offense, the type
of offense and subsequent rehabilitation, and the
public sensitivity of the position under
consideration, must be taken into account in
evaluating a criminal history report.
(B) Hiring or appointing a volunteer with a
criminal history record will require a positive
recommendation by the selecting official and the
approval of the appropriate county elected official
or governing body, after full disclosure and
consideration of the criminal history and the
applicant.
(Ord. 95-09, passed 11-22-95)