11-9
CHAPTER 112:  MINING
Section
112.01 Mining regulations
§ 112.01  MINING REGULATIONS.
(A) The definitions contained in ORS
517.750 are adopted into and are applicable to the
provisions of this chapter.
(B) This chapter, once approved by
DOGAMI, exempts county operated surface
mining operations from the provisions of ORS
517.702 through 517.989.  All other surface
mining in the county is unaffected by this chapter
and remains under the jurisdiction of DOGAMI.
(C) All county surface mining operations
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter
and reclamation plans adopted pursuant thereto.
(D) A surface mining administrator is hereby
appointed.  The surface mining administrator is the
Director of the Public Works Department.
(E) All reclamation plans for county operated
surface mining operations shall in general address
the issues contained in OAR 632-030-0025,
Requirements for the Reclamation Plan.  The
county surface mining administrator shall see that
the plan is executed.
(F) The reclamation plan shall provide for
the following where applicable:
(1) Rehabilitation of stream channels
and banks to prevent eros ion, sedimentation and
other water polluting effects on water resources
and to maintain the pre-mining quality and
quantity of affected water resources.
(2) Sloping and other control measures
to stabilize final terrain surfaces and minimize
public hazards.
(3) Vegetating disturbed terrain in a
manner conducive to restoring it to a natural state
or a state consistent with its future use as stated in
the reclamation plan.
(4) Preventing pools of water from
becoming a public nuisance or health hazard.
(5) Providing shore line safety by use of
a slope to permit safe entry into and exit from a
body of water to a point five feet below the water
level for all water levels to be experienced during
any year.
(6) Removing structures and equipment
that otherwise would be abandoned after
termination of mining.
(7) Provisions for the protection of
public health and safety.
(8) A timetable or time schedule for
surface mining and reclamation.
(G) DOGAMI shall be provided with a list of
all county operated surface mining operations on
an annual basis.
(Ord. 98-03, passed 6-10-98)
11-10