IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                             IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO

     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY PLANNING)
     & DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT'S REQUEST TO       )
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED POST-                  )
     ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS
     TO UPDATE THE WASCO COUNTY LAND USE AND     ) ORDINANCE
     DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE TO IMPLEMENT THE      ) No. 09-011
     WASCO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM PLAN     _)
     AND MAKE OTHER AMENDMENTS NECESSARY FOR
     CONSISTENCY WITH STATE LAW AND OTHER
     PORTIONS OF THE ORDINANCE AS WELL AS        )
     INCREASE CLARITY (FILE NUMBER PLALEG-08-12-
     0003)

            NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

     consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business

     and a majority of the Court being present; and

            WHEREAS,     Wasco County does not have a Transportation System Plan and the

     existing Wasco County rules, regulations and policies are not necessarily consistent

     with the Oregon State Transportation Planning Rule, OAR 660, Division 12.      On

     March 9, 2007, the Wasco County Planning & Development Department and Wasco

     County Public Works Department applied for a Transportation and Growth Management

10   Grant to pay for the process of conducting a long range planning process that will result

11   in a Transportation System Pian and a Post Acknowledgement Plan Amendment

     Page 1 - ORDINANCE
                                                            20090454
     process for a Legislative Text Amendment to the Comprehensive Plan and Land Use &

     Development Ordinance to amend the transportation element and associated

     regulations to become consistent with the Transportation Planning Rule, OAR 660,

     Division 12.    On May 21, 2007, Wasco County received notification that it was awarded

     $100,000 (with a 10% local match requirement) to hire a consulting firm to conduct this

     process which is required to be completed by June 30, 2008.    On October 29, 2008, the

     Wasco County Court entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement with the State of

     Oregon that included an agreed upon statement of work.     In July of 2008, Wasco

     County chose Kittelson and Associates, Inc. to conduction this long range planning

10   project.

11              WHEREAS, The Wasco County Planning & Development Department was

12   directed by the Wasco County Court on January 7, 2009, per Section 9.010(A) of the

13   Wasco County Land Use & Development Ordinance to initiate a Post-Acknowledgement

14   Plan Amendment process for a legislative text amendment to the Land Use and

15   Development Ordinance to update the Wasco County Land Use and Development

16   Ordinance to implement the Wasco County Transportation System Plan and make other

17   amendments necessary for consistency with state law and other portions of the

18   Ordinance as well as increase clarity; and

19              WHEREAS,   The Wasco County Planning & Development Department sent

20   notification to the Department of Land Conservation and Development, pursuant to

21   ORS 197.610, on August 13, 2009, and all property owners in the unincorporated

22   portion of Wasco County outside of the National Scenic Area on September 15, 2009;

23   and

     Page 2 - ORDINANCE
                                                              20096451
           WHEREAS,     That on October 6, 2009, at the hour of 3:00 p.m. at the Columbia

     River Gorge Discovery Center downstairs classroom the Wasco County Planning &

     Department held a legally notified public workshop with the Wasco County Planning

     Commission and the Wasco County Court on the above matter to review back ground

     information and listen to public comments for the purpose of better understanding the

     proposed amendments prior to the Planning Commission hearing; and

           WHEREAS:         That on October 6, 2009, following the conclusion of the workshop,

     the Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct a legally notified public hearing

     on the above matter.    The Commission reviewed the record, heard the Staff

10   recommendation and all relevant testimony from parties, deliberated and voted to

11   elevate the request for a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment with a

12   recommendation of approval to the Wasco County Court with additional amendments;

13   and

14         WHEREAS:         That on November 4, 2009, at the hour of 10:30 a.m. in the Wasco

1S   County Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse the Wasco County

16   Court met to conduct a legally notified public hearing on the above matter. The County

17   Court reviewed the record, heard the Planning Commission recommendation and Staff

18   recommendation and all relevant testimony from the parties, deliberated and, on a vote

19   of 3— 0 approved the recommendation by the Wasco County Planning Commission on

20   the above matter with additional amendments, as laid out in Attachment A, to be

21   signed at the next scheduled County Court meeting, November 25, 2009; and

22          NOW THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:                 That the request by the Wasco

23   County Planning & Development Department for a Post-Acknowledgement Plan

     Page 3 - ORDINANCE
                                                                20090404
 Amendment for a legislative text amendment to the Land Use and Development

 Ordinance to update the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance to

 implement the Wasco County Transportation System Plan and make other amendments

 necessary for consistency with state law and other portions of the Ordinance, as well as

 increase clarity is approved.

        SIGNED this 25th day of November, 2009.

 Approved as to Form:
                                               WASCO COUNTY COURT

(Eicdtisley                                    Dan   FrickSen Judge
    sco County District Attorney

                                               Sherry HollisWay, Mu   coed

                                        et                     Sete
                                               Bill Lennox, Commissioner

 Page 4 - ORDINANCE
                                                         2009049:
                                                                         foe
                               ATTACHMENT A
                              PLALEG-08-12-0003

     Final Updated Versions of the Following Chapters of the
              Land Use and Development Ordinance

Title Page

Chapter 1 - Definitions

Chapter 2 - Development Approval Procedures

Chapter 4 - Supplemental Provisions

Chapter 5 - Conditional Use Review

Chapter 9 - Zone Change & Ordinance Amendment

Chapter 18 - Planned Unit Development

Chapter 20 - Site Plan Review

Chapter 21 - Land Divisions

                                                200905
                                                         Hee
                                                         qr
                                                               fer
              WASCO COUNTY

LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
                         ADOPTED
                         June, 1985

                        EFFECTIVE
                         July, 1989
                      January, 1992
                        May, 1993
                     September, 1993
                      January, 1995
                        April, 1995
                     December, 1996
                     September,      1997
                        June, 1998
                     September, 1999
                    November 16, 1999
                     January 19, 2000
                     February 1, 2000
                     February 2, 2004
                     January 17, 2006
                    November 22, 2006
                     February 5, 2007
                        July 8, 2009
                       July 22, 2009
                    December 16, 2009

                   PREPARED BY THE
      Wasco County Planning and Development Office

                             STAFF
          Todd R. Comett             Director of Planning
          A. Gary Nychyk             Senior Planner
           Brenda Jenkins            Planning Coordinator
             Dawn M. Baird           Associate Planner
         Jeanette Montour            Associate Planner
            Benjamin Hoey            Planning Assistant
           Keith Cleveland           Code Compliance Officer
                                      DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                             CHAPTER 1      INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SECTION                 TITLE                                         PAGE

1.005                   AUTHORITY                                     1-1
1.010                   TITLE                                         1-1
1.020                   PURPOSE                                       1-1
1.030                   SEVERABILITY                                  1-1
1.040                   REPEAL                                        1-1
1.050                   EFFECTIVE DATE
1.060                   INTERPRETATION AND SCOPE                      1-2
1.070                   COMPLIANCE REQUIRED                           1-2
1.080                   EDITORIAL REVISION                            1-2
1.090                   DEFINITIONS                                   1-2

Chapter 1 = Introductory Provisions                        2609045»
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                             Page 1-1

                            CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SECTION 1.005 Authority
This Ordinance is enacted pursuant                to   the    provisions       of Oregon     Revised       Statutes
Chapters 92, 197, 203, and 215.

SECTION 1.010 Title
This Ordinance shall be known              as the Wasco          County        Land    Use   and    Development
Ordinance.

SECTION 1.020         Purpose
The purposes of this Ordinance are:           To promote public health, safety, convenience, and
genera!   welfare;     to   reduce   congestion        upon   the    streets     and    highways;     to   prevent
excessive population density and the overcrowding of land; to provide for adequate air and
light; to conserve natural resources and encourage the orderly growth of the County; to
promote safety from fire and natural disaster; to assist in rendering adequate police and
fire protection; to facilitate adequate and economic provision for public improvements, for
recreation areas, and for public utilities and services; to conserve, stabilize, and protect
property values; and to encourage the most appropriate use of land, all in accordance with
the comprehensive plan for Wasco County.

SECTION 1.030 Severability
The   provisions     of this Ordinance     are severable.           If any section,      sentence,     clause,     or
phrase of this Ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance.       The
Director, the Director's designee or other Approving Authority shall not approve a
development or use of land that has been previously divided or otherwise developed in
violation of this Ordinance, regardless of whether the applicant created the violation,
unless the violation can be rectified as part of the development proposal.

SECTION 1.040         Repeal
The following ordinances, together with all amendments thereto are hereby repealed:

"Wasco County Zoning Ordinance", adopted February 3, 1982.
"Wasco    County     Subdivision     and   Land    Development         Ordinance",       adopted     February      3,
1982.
“Wasco County Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Park Ordinance”.

                                                                                  Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                   December 16, 2009
Page 1-2

SECTION 1.050 Effective Date
This Ordinance shall become effective when filed with the Wasco County Clerk.
Amendments hereto, unless otherwise specified, shall become effective when filed with
the County Clerk.

SECTION 1.060 Interpretation and Scope
Interpretation: The provisions of this Ordinance shall be liberally construed to effect the
purpose.     These provisions are declared to be the minimum requirements to fulfill
objectives.   When conditions herein imposed are less restrictive than comparative
provisions imposed by any other provision of this Ordinance by resolution of State Law or
State Administration regulations, then the more restrictive shall govern.

Scope:       This Ordinance            is enacted    to regulate and      restrict the location and     use of
buildings, structures, and land for residence, trade, industry, and other land use activities;
to regulate and limit the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures hereafter erected or altered; to regulate and limit the density of population and
to divide Wasco County into districts or zones of such number, shape and area as may be
deemed best to carry out these regulations and to provide for the enforcement of these
regulations.

SECTION 1.070 Compliance Required
No structure or premises in Wasco County shall hereafter be used or occupied and no part
or structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or
altered contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 1.080 Editorial Revision
Editorial revision will be in compliance with the following procedures. The District Attomey
may at any time direct such changes regarding currently maintained copies of this
Ordinance and amendments as the Legislative Council is authorized to perform regarding
acts of the Legislature, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute 173.160, provided that such
editorial revisions be directed by written memorandum filed with the County Clerk and with
the Planning Department, but subject to disapproval by the Commission at next regular
meeting thereafter.            Editorial revisions shall become effective, unless disapproved by the
Commission,           on     the   first   regular   meeting   of   the   Commission    after   the   directing
memorandum is              filed with the County Clerk.

SECTION 1.090 Definitions
For the purpose of this Ordinance, certain words and terms are defined as follows: Words
used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the
plural, and words in the plural include the singular, the word “Building” includes the word
"Structure"; the word "Shall" is mandatory and not directory.

Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions                                       9 0 G 9 0 4 3 %
December   16, 2009
                                                                                               Page 1-3

AUM - Animal Unit Month - Unit of measure of dry forage to graze a 900 - 1000 pound
cow and calf for thirty (30) days as prescribed by the NRCS Rangeland Specialist.

Abandoned WECS - A WECS that does not generate energy during a period of twelve
(12) consecutive months for reasons other than lack of wind, lack of demand for the
electricity produced, repair, or modemization.

Accepted    Farming      Practice - A mode of operation common     to farms and ranches of a
similar nature necessary for the operation of such farms and ranches, with the intent to
obtain a profit in money, and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm use.

Access - A way or means of approach to provide pedestrian, bicycle, and/or motor
vehicular entrances or exits to a property. Includes driveways and private accesses.

Access easement - An easement recorded for the purpose of providing vehicle, bicycle,
and/or pedestrian access from a public or private road to a parcel across intervening
property under separate ownership from the parcel being provided access. See Private
Easement Road.

Accessory Structure -         A detached   structure, its footprint being less than 3/4 of the
primary structures footprint, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the primary
structure or the primary use of the land and which is located on the same lot-of-record with
the primary structure or use. Accessory structures shall not include agricultural exempt
buildings. (Revised 1/92, 5/93)

Accessory Use - A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the primary uses and
located on the same lot-of-record. (Revised 1/92)

Agricultural Land (Per OAR 660-33-020(1)(a) - Means lands classified by the US Natural
Resource Conservation Service as predominantly Class I-VI in Eastern Oregon; land in
other soil classes that is suitable for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203 taking into
consideration soil fertility; suitability for grazing; climatic conditions; existing and future
availability of water for farm irrigation purposes; existing land use patterns; technological
and energy inputs required; and accepted farming practices; land that is necessary to
permit farm practices to be undertaken on adjacent or nearby agricultural lands; and
land in capability classes other than | - VI that is adjacent to or intermingled with lands in
capability classes | - V! within a farm unit shall be inventoried as agricultural lands even
though this land may not be cropped or grazed. Agricultural land does not include land
within acknowledged       urban growth boundaries or land within acknowledged            exception
areas for Goal 3 or 4.
                                                     tan
                                                           ert
                                            (er)
                                           ome)
                                            t>

                                                           |e!
                                           [wel
                                           Cc

                                                                   Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                    December   16, 2009
Page 1-4

Agricultural Purposes - The predominant and gainful use of land for the following
purposes: the growing of hay, grain, seed, row crops, horticultural crops, livestock, poultry
and produce.

Agricultural Structure — In any zone a building or structure may be considered in
conjunction with farm use, as defined in this Chapter or ORS 215.203 subject to the
following:

    All buildings and structures

    a.     The lot or parcel is enrolled in a farm deferral program with the County Assessor;

     b.    The owner provides a farm management plan that is reviewed and approved by the
           Planning Department;

    Agricultural Exempt Buildings Only

    c.     The owner submits a signed floor plan showing that only farm related uses will
           occupy the building space; and

    d.     The   owner will file a restrictive covenant         in the deed      records of Wasco      County
           agreeing the it will be used solely as will be solely used as an agricultural building
           as defined by ORS 455.315(2).

Airport Approach           Area       -   A wedge-shaped     area described      by boundaries      where the
inner edge of the Airport Approach Area coincides with each end of the runway and is two
hundred and fifty (250) feet wide at each terminus.                 The Airport Approach Area expands
outward uniformly to a width of seven hundred and fifty (750) feet at a horizontal distance
of two thousand five hundred (2,500) feet from the terminus, with its centerline being the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.

Airport Clear Area - The Airport Clear Area coincides with the Airport Approach Area for
a horizontal distance of one thousand two hundred (1,200) feet from the runway termini.

Airport Hazard - Any structure, tree, or use of land which unreasonably obstructs the air
space required for the safe flight of aircraft in landing or taking off at an airport or landing
field, or is otherwise hazardous to such landing or taking off of aircraft.

Airport Hazard Area - Any                   area   of land   upon   which   an   airport   hazard   might   be
established if not prevented.

Airport (Personal-Use) - Means pursuant OAR 660-33-130(7), an airstrip restricted,
except for aircraft emergencies, to use by the owner, and on an infrequent and occasional
basis, by invited guests, and by commercial aviation activities in connection with
agricultural operations. No aircraft may be based on a personal use airport other than

Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions                                               noagdas.
December16, 2009                                                            2080       0 AS a
                                                                                                 Page 1-5

those ‘owned or controlled by the owner of the airstrip. Exceptions to the activities
permitted under this definition may be granted through waiver action by the Oregon
Aeronautics Division in specific instances.     A personal use airport lawfully existing as of
September 13, 1975 shall continue to be permitted subject to any applicable rules of the
Oregon Aeronautics Division. (amended 12/96)

Airport (Public) - A designated area for the take-off and landing of airplanes which is
designed for public use by general aviation, and where aircraft service facilities are
nomnally provided.

All Weather Road - A road that has, depending upon design criteria, a six [to eight] or
more inches of gravel base, smooth surface, that a two wheel drive vehicle can use all
year round.   Confirmation of "all weather" to be made by the Wasco County Public Works
Department.

Alley - A secondary means of access to abutting property, if dedicated as a public way.

Altered - A change, addition, or modification in structure; where the term "altered" is used
in connection with a change of occupancy, it is intended to apply to changes of occupancy
from one trade or use to another, or from one division or use to another.

Apartment - A building or portion thereof designed for residential use and containing three
or more dwelling units.

Apartment House      - Three or more    household     units with walls or ceilings common             to
another unit.

Approach Road — That portion of any access, driveway or other facility that immediately
abuts upon a public or county road and provides ingress to or egress from said public or
county road.

Approving Authority - The County Goveming Body or the body designated                            by the
County Governing Body to administer all or part of this ordinance.

Arterial Road or Street - A road or street used primarily to carry high levels of regional
vehicular traffic at high speeds; connects the collector road system to freeways;
provides connection to other cities and communities;          serves major traffic movements;
access control may be provided through medians and/or channelization.                    The typical
average daily traffic exceeds 2,000.

Automobile    and Trailer Sales Area - An open area, other than a street, used for the
display, sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers and where no repair work
is done except minor incidental repair of motor vehicles or trailers to be displayed, sold or
rented on the premises.

                                              SOSA.
                                       2 6    } 9 uv A ad a          Chapter 1 — {ntroductory Provisions
                                                                                      December   16, 2009
Automobile Repair Garage - A building or portion thereof used for the care and repair of
motor vehicles or where such vehicles are parked or stored for compensation, hire or sale.

Automobile Service Station - Any premises used for supplying gasoline, oil, minor
accessories, and services, excluding body and fender repair for automobiles at retail direct
to the customer.

Automobile Wrecking Yard - Any property where more than two vehicles not in running
condition, or parts thereof, are:    wrecked, dismantled, disassembled, or substantially
altered and are stored in the open and are not being restored to operation; or any land,
building, or structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof
for a period exceeding three (3) months. (Revised 1/92)

Awning - An awning is defined as any accessory shade structure supported by posts or
columns and partially supported by a mobile home.

Basement - A portion of a building, partly underground, which is less than one-half of its
height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the
adjoining ground, and not deemed a story unless the ceiling is six (6) feet or more above
the ground.

Batch Plant, Concrete or Asphalt - Means the storage, preparation, and manufacturing
of concrete or asphalt including customary equipment and accessory buildings.    Also
called Redi-Mix plant.

Bed and Breakfast Inn - A single-family dwelling where lodging and a morning meal for
guests only are offered for compensation, having no more than five (5) sleeping rooms for
this purpose. An establishment where more than one (1) meal per day is offered shall not
be deemed a bed and breakfast inn. An establishment with more than five (5) sleeping
rooms shall be deemed a hotel. A bed and breakfast inn must be within the residence of
the operator. (added 2/89)

Bikeway - Any road, path, or way that is in some              manner specifically open to bicycle
travel, regardless of whether            such facilities are designated     for the exclusive   use of
bicycles or are shared with other transportation modes.

Bike Lane       - A defined       portion of the roadway which   has been     designated   by striping,
signing and pavement markings for the preferential or exclusive use of bicyclists.

Blade - An element of a WECS             rotor which forms an aerodynamic surface or surfaces to
convert movement of air into mechanical energy or torque.

Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                  20090454
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 1-7

Block - An area of land within a subdivision which area may be entirely bounded by
streets, highways or ways (except alleys), and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision.

Boarding House - A building or premise where meals and lodging are offered for
compensation for three (3) or more persons but not more than nine (9) persons; and
having no more than five (5) sleeping rooms for this purpose.           An establishment where
meals are served for compensation for more than nine (9) persons shall be deemed a
restaurant. An establishment with more than five (5) sleeping rooms shall be deemed a
hotel.

Boarding of Horses       - The boarding of horses for profit in specified zones other than the
Exclusive Farm Use zone shall include the following:

    a.   The stabling, feeding and grooming for a fee, or the renting of stalls for and the care
         of horses not belonging to the owner of the property; and,

    b. Related facilities, such as training arenas, corrals and exercise tracks.

         The boarding of horses for profit does not include the following:

    a.   The mere pasturage of horses or the boarding of horses not owned by the property
         owner for the purpose of breeding with the owner's stock;

    b. The incidental stabling of not more than four (4) horses;

    c. The boarding of horses for friends or guests where no charge is made; and

    d.   Equestrian activities when the raising, feeding, training or grooming of horses is a
         farm use by the property owner of the land qualifying for farm assessment under
         regulations of the State Department of Revenue.

Building - Any structure built for the support,        shelter,   or enclosure    of any     persons,
animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

Building Line - A line on a plat indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures
may not be erected.

Business - Employment of one or more persons for the purpose of earning a                livelihood or
a profit in money. (added 2/89)

Cabana - A room enclosure erected or constructed adjacent to a mobile home for use as
an addition to a mobile home.

                                            206090452
                                                                      Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                                       December 16, 2009
Page 1-8

Campground            - A     campground       is an      area   devoted       to overnight      temporary      use   for
vacation,      recreational        or    emergency        purposes,      but    not   for    residential      purposes.
Overnight temporary             use     in the same       campground       by a camper or camper's               vehicle
shall not exceed a total of 30 days during any consecutive 6 month period.

Camp, Tourist, or Trailer Park - Any area or tract of land used or designed to
accommodate more than two camping outfits (trailer, tent, tent trailer, recreational vehicle,
pickup camper or other similar device used for camping), including cabins.

Carport - A covered shelter for an automobile open on two or more sides.                                 A carport may
be freestanding or partially supported by a dwelling unit or mobile home.

Cellar - A story having more than one-half of its height below the average level of the
adjoining ground and which has less than six (6) feet of its height above the average level
of the adjoining ground.

Cemetery - Land dedicated for burial purposes, including mortuary, crematory,
mausoleum, and columbarium, when operated within the boundary of the cemetery.

Church - A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where persons
regularly assemble for public worship, and which building, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship.

Class | Stream - Waters which are valuable for domestic use, are important for angling or
other recreation, and/or used by significant numbers of fish for spawning, rearing, or
migration routes as designated by the Oregon Department of Forestry. Stream flows may
be perennial or intermittent.

Class II Stream - Any headwater streams or minor drainages that generally have limited
or no direct value for angling or other recreation as designated by the Oregon Department
of Forestry. They are used by only a few, if any, fish for spawning or rearing. Their
principal value is their influence on water quality or quantity downstream in Class | waters.
Stream flow may be perennial or intermittent.

Clinic     - Single      or   multiple    offices   for    physicians,     surgeons,        dentists,     chiropractors,
osteopaths, and other members of the healing arts, including a pharmacy in any such
building.

Club or Lodge - A building and facilities owned and operated for a social or recreational
purpose, to which membership is required for participation, but is not operated primarily for
profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.                            A club does not
include a public rehabilitation facility of any kind.

                                                                                 20690454
Chapter 1 —- Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                           Page 1-9

Collector Road     or Street (Major)        - A road used          primarily to serve traffic between
neighborhoods and community facilities; principal carrier between arterials and local
roads; provides some degree of access to adjacent properties, while maintaining
circulation and mobility for all users; carries lower traffic volumes at slower speeds than
arterials; typically has two or three lanes; bicycle facilities may be exclusive or shared
roadways    depending    on   traffic volumes,      speeds,    and        extent   of bicycle travel.        The
typical average daily traffic ranges from 500 to 2,000.

Collector Road or Street (Minor) - A road used primarily to connect rural residential
areas with arterials and major collector roads; has slower speeds to enhance safety;
bicycle facilities may be exclusive or shared roadways depending on traffic volumes,
speeds, and extent of bicycle travel.       The typical average daily traffic ranges from 250 to
400.

Commencement of Development - Authorized development has been commenced
when the holder of the permit has physically altered the land or structure or changed the
use thereof and such alteration or change is directed toward completion and is sufficient in
terms of time, labor or money spent to demonstrate a good faith effort to complete the
development.     In the case of development requiring a building permit, issuance of the
building permit shall be conclusive evidence of commencing development.            Nothing
herein, however, shall be deemed to extend the life of said building permit as provided by
law. A development permit which would have expired but for issuance of a building permit
shall expire automatically upon expiration of the building permit.         In the case of
development authorized to be done in phases, each phase must be commenced within the
time frame specified in the approval, or commenced within two years of completion of the
prior phase if no time table is specified. The date of phase completion in the case of a
structure or structures shall be the date of issuance of an occupancy permit by the Director
for 80% or more of the structure or structures.

Commercial - The use of land or structures for a business activity engaged primarily in the
sale of goods or services. (added 2/89)

Commercial Agricultural Enterprise - Consists of farm operations that will contribute
in a substantial way to the area's existing agricultural economy; and help maintain
agricultural processors and established farm markets. When determining whether a
farm is part of the commercial agricultural enterprise, not only what is produced, but
how much and how it is marketed shall be considered. These are important factors
because of the intent of Goal 3 to maintain the agricultural economy of the state.

Commercial     Energy    Facility   - An    electrical   power       generating      plant with     a nominal
electrical generating capacity of more than 25,000 kilowatts or operates at more than 230
kilovolts; including, but not limited to:    a thermal power plant, hydroelectric power plant,
combustion turbine power plant, geothermal power plant, electric power trarismission
facility, or a nuclear installation, including a power reactor, re-processing plant, waste

                                              9nr             Am     sy
                                              2 0   W J 0     4 Je             Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                December   16, 2009
Page 1-19

disposal facility, and any facility handling a quantity of fissionable materials sufficient to
form a critical mass. A commercial power generation facility includes related or supporting
facilities including any structure adjacent to and associated with an energy facility,
including associated transmission lines, reservoirs, intake structures, road and rail access,
pipelines, office or industrial structures built in conjunction with and used as part of the
energy facility. A commercial power generation facility does not include a portable power
plant, the principal use of which is to supply power in emergency or for individual domestic
use.

Commercial Utility Facility - Any energy facility or commercial energy facility.

Commission - The Wasco County Planning Commission.

Common Area - Any area or space designed for joint use of tenants.

Communication           Facility - A facility constructed for the purpose of transmitting telegraph,
telephone, microwave, television, radio, and other similar signals.

Community           Center     or     Hall   - A   building   and   facilities   owned   and   operated   by a
governmental agency or non-profit community organization whose membership is open to
any resident of the community in which the center or hall is located.

Community Management - The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the
mobile home development.

Community Sanitary-Sewer System - A public or private system of underground pipes of
sufficient capacity to carry domestic sewage from an area to connected treatment and
disposal facilities, as approved by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.

Community Water-Supply System - A public or private system of underground
distribution pipes providing a continuous supply of potable water from a center source in
quantities sufficient to meet domestic and fire protection needs for three (3) or more
dwellings, as approved by the State of Oregon Department of Human Resources, Health
Division.

Compost - A mixture of decaying, organic matter, such as leaves and manure, used
as fertilizer.

       a.   Green Feedstocks — Materials low in: (1) Substances that pose a present or future
            hazard to human health or the environment; (2) Substances that are low in, and
            unlikely to support, human pathogens. Green feedstocks include but are not limited
            to yard debris, animal manure, wood waste, vegetative food waste, produce waste,
            vegetative restaurant waste, vegetative food processor byproducts and crop
            residue.

                                                                                               te

Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                 20090454
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                             Page 1-11

   b.   Non-Green Feedstocks — Materials high in: (1) Substances that pose a present or
        future hazard to human health or the environment; (2) Substances that are high in,
        and likely to support, human pathogens. Non-green feedstocks include but are not
        limited to animal parts and byproducts, mixed materials containing animal parts or
        byproducts, dead animals and municipal solid waste.

   c.   Agricultural Composting — Composting                   as an agricultural operation conducted              on
        lands employed for farm use.

   d.   Institutional Composting — The composting of green feedstocks generated from the
        facility's own activities. It may also include supplemental feedstocks. Feedstocks
        must be composted on-site, the compost produced must be utilized within the
        contiguous boundaries of the institution and not offered for sale or use off-site.
        Institutional composting      includes but is not limited to parks,                           apartments,
        universities, schools, hospitals, golf courses and industrial parks.

   e.   Reload Facility — A facility or site that accepts and                  reloads only yard debris and
        wood waste for transport to another location.

Comprehensive Plan - The generalized, coordinated land use map and policy statement
of the goveming body of Wasco County that interrelates all functional and natural systems
and activities relative to the use of lands including, but not limited to sewer and water
systems, transportation systems,          educational systems,            recreational facilities, and natural
resources and air and water quality management programs.

Condominium      - Property,   any        part     of which      is residential    in nature,     submitted      and
approved in accordance with the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes 91.500 to 91.671.

Conduit - Any tunnel, canal, pipeline, aqueduct, flume, ditch or similar man-made water
conveyance.

Consultant Engineer - A professional engineer, registered in the State of Oregon, who is
retained by and responsible to an applicant for the design and construction of subdivisions
and required public or private improvements. Although a Civil Engineer is preferable, any
engineer who is qualified to perform the work involved, and so certified, may be a
consultant engineer.

Contiguous     - Lots,   parcels     or     lots    and       parcels   that   have    a common          boundary.
"Contiguous" includes, but is not limited to, lots, parcels, or lots and parcels separated only
by an alley, street, or other right-of-way. (Revised 1/92)

Corner Lot - A lot at least two adjacent sides of which abut streets other than alleys,
provided the angle of intersection of the adjacent street does not exceed 135 degrees.

                                                                 SOMA         ey
                                                          2    G uy       4 vs     Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                    December 16, 2009
Page 1-12

Corridor - The length and width of a right-of-way or tenancy containing or intended for a
transmission facility and other uses in, or intended for, the same right-of-way.

County - The County of Wasco, Oregon.

County Governing Body - The County Goveming Body of Wasco County, Oregon.

County Road - A public road which has been designated as a county road and formally
accepted for maintenance by the Wasco County Governing Body. A county road shall not
act as a dividing feature of a lot-of-record.

County Road District - For purposes of improving county roads or public roads within the
boundaries         of a city or drainage      district, county   road   districts may   be formed   from
contiguous territory within the county. All road improvements are initiated through a
petition process approved         by the County Goveming   Body. To fund the road
improvements, county road districts may assess, levy and collect taxes on all taxable
property within the district. See ORS 371.055.

Court - An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building and
bounded on two sides by such building.

Court Apartment - One to four multiple dwellings arranged around two or three sides of a
court which opens into a street.

Cross       Access     - A service    drive   providing    vehicular access     between    two   or more
separate sites, so that the driver need not enter the public street system between sites.

Cul-De-Sac - A street with oniy one outlet having sufficient space at the closed end to
provide a vehicular tuming area.

Cultural and Historic Sites - Sites having a record of historic activity                         that   is
well-documented and have or have had an impact on the local community.

Curb Line - The line dividing the roadway from the planting strip or footway.

Dam - Any mari-made structure that impounds water.

Date of Creation and Existence - Within the Exclusive Farm Use zone, when a lot,
parcel or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable iaw after November 4, 1993 or July
4, 2001, the effect of which is to qualify a lot, parcel or tract for the siting of a dwelling or
a non-farm division respectively, the date of the reconfiguration is the date of creation or
existence. Reconfigured mearis any change in the boundary of the lot, parcel or tract. A
property line adjustment which does not have the effect of qualifying an otherwise non-
qualifying lot, parcel or tract for a dwelling or a non-farm division respectively, does not
change the date of creation.

Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                        2009045»
December    16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 1-13

Day Nursery - Any institution, establishment or place, other than a group day care home,
in which are commonly received at one time, three or more children not of common
parentage, under the age of six years, for a period or periods not exceeding twelve hours,
for the purpose of being given board, care or training apart from their parents or guardians
for compensation or reward. {revised 2/89)

Design     - The design of any street or alley alignments, grade or width, alignment of
width of easements and rights-of-way for drainage or irrigation purposes               and sanitary
facilities, and lot area, width or layout.

Development - Any man-made change to improved or unimproved reai estate,
including but not limited to construction, installation or change of a building or other
structure, change in use of a building or structure, land division, establishment, or
termination of right of access, storage on the land, tree cutting, drilling, and site
alteration such as that due to land surface mining, dredging, grading, construction of
earthen berms, paving, improvements for use as parking, excavation or clearing.

Developer - A subdivider, or if not creating a subdivision, a person who proposes to, or
does develop the land, whether it be for public or private purposes.

Director - Wasco County Planning Director or their designee.

Diversion - Any structure that deflects a portion of the water from a stream channel.

Double     Frontage   Lot - A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets.

Drive-in - A business establishment so developed that its retail or service character is
dependent on providing a driveway approach for parking space for motor vehicles so as to
serve patrons while in the motor vehicle, or within a building on the same premises and
devoted to the same purpose as the drive-in service. The term drive-in shall include any
business establishment dispensing food or drink on a self-service basis          and for
consumption outside the building.

Driveway - A private access providing ingress and egress to and from within a single
property, or portion of a single property to a public road, private road or private easement
road.

Driveway, Shared - When         land uses on two or more lots or parcels share one driveway.
A Private    Easement    Road    must   be created   for any   new   shared    driveway       crossing
another property.

                                           20090454
                                                        G +

                                                                     Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                      December    16, 2009
Page 1-14

Dude        Ranch - A    business activity that provides meals, lodging or camping facilities, and
recreation activities associated with farm use or animals. An establishment offering meals
to individuals other than ovemight guests shall be deemed a restaurant. An establishment
offering ovemight accommodations not in conjunction with recreational activities shall be
deemed a hotel or campground. (added 2/89)

Dwelling Types - For the purposes of this Ordinance, dwellings are separated                  into the
following categories and herewith defined accordingly:

    a.      Single Family Attached (Duplex) - Two (2) household units which share         a common
            wall or ceiling, but no unit may have a ceiling common to another unit.

    b.      Single Family Attached (Multiplex) - Three (3) or more household units which share
            common walls, but no unit may have a ceiling common to another unit.         Otherwise
            known as Townhouses or Row Houses.

    c.      Single Family Detached - A single household unit whose                  construction     is
            characterized by no common wall or ceiling with another unit.

    d. Multiple Family - Three (3) or more household units with common walls or ceilings
       common to another unit. Terms of differentiation for Multiple Family include:
       Garden Low Rise, being walkup structures limited to a maximum of two stories;
            Garden Medium Rise, being walkup structures limited to a maximum            of three (3)
            stories; and High Rise, being elevator structures of multiple stories.

Dwelling Unit - A lawfully established dwelling is a single-family dwelling which:

    a.      Has intact exterior walls and roof structure;

    b.      Has indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet and bathing facilities
            connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;

    c.      Has interior wiring for interior lights; and

    d.      Has a heating system.”

Easement - A grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific purposes.        Includes but is
not limited to access easements and utility easements.

Endangered and Threatened Species - Those species of plants and animals listed or
proposed for listing as of October 1, 1978, in 41 FED REG 24524. (June 16, 1976) and 50
CFR Part 17, and its amendments and species listed or proposed for listing by the State of
Oregon.

                                                                  fr,    /
Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions                          9 tf} u 9 0 4
December     16, 2009
                                                                                            Page 1-15

Energy Development - A building or construction operation making a significant change
in the use or appearance of a structure or land for an energy facility; and the clearing,
excavation, filling, grading, and road building in connection with the operation.

Energy Facility - A hydroelectric, wind energy, biomass, geothermal or transmission
facility with a nominal electric generating capacity of 25 MW or less or carrying 230 kV or
less.

Energy Facility Project Area - The proposed location of an energy facility, any structure
adjacent to and associated with an energy facility, including associated transmission lines,
reservoirs, intake structures, road and rail access, pipelines, barge basins, office or public
buildings, and commercial and industrial structures proposed to be built in connection with
the energy facility, and the area affected by the facility.

Expando - Room or rooms that fold, collapse, or telescope into a mobile home.

Family - One or two persons with their direct descendants and adopted children (and
including domestic employees thereof), together with not more than five (5) persons not so
related living together in a room or rooms comprising a single housekeeping unit. Every
additional group of five (5) or less persons living in such housekeeping unit shall be
considered as a separate family.

Family Hardship     Dwelling   - A mobile home     or recreational vehicle used temporarily
during a family hardship situation when an additional dwelling is allowed to house aged or
infirm person or persons physically incapable of maintaining a complete separate
residence apart from their family.

Farm Management Plan - Shall include information applicable to the specific farm use
from the following list: Proof that the parcel is enrolled in a farm deferral program with the
Wasco County Assessor; written description of a current farm operation that identifies the
number of acres of land in current production, type and number of acres planted to a
specific crop; the number of animals grazing or being raised on the farm parcel, existing
farm structures (including inigation sprinklers) supporting the farm use; and any existing
water rights. The plan shall include a description of the number of employees working the
farm parcel, and their responsibilities.     The plan shall include a map that shows the
location of all farm activities including but not limited to registered fields (Farm Services
Agency map), grazing areas and areas dedicated to farm structures.

Farm Unit - means the contiguous and noncontiguous tracts in common                     ownership
used by the farm operator for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203.

Farm Use - The current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit
in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding, management
and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or honeybees or

                                            MPAAA
                                            f       Ay MK
                                        2 9 Uv J uv 4 J.           Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                    December 16, 2009
Page 1-16

for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or
animal husbandry or any combination thereof.

Farm use includes the preparation, storage and disposal by marketing or otherwise of
the products or by-products raised on such land for human or animal use. Farm use
also includes the current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit in money               by stabling or training       equines    including        but not limited to providing
riding lessons, training clinics and schooling shows.

Farm        use   also        includes the    propagation,     cultivation,     maintenance        and   harvesting     of
aquatic, bird and animal species that are under the jurisdiction of the State Fish and
Wildlife Commission, to the extent allowed by the rules adopted by the commission.
Farm use also includes the on-site construction and maintenance                                    of equipment       and
facilities used for the activities described in this subsection.

Preparation of products or by-products includes but is not limited to the cleaning,
treatment, sorting, or packaging of the products or by-products.       Products or by-
products raised on such land" means that those products or by-products are raised on
the farm operation where the preparation occurs or on other farm land provided the
preparation is occurring only on land being used for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit in money from the farm use of the land.

Farm use does not include the use of land subject to the provisions of ORS chapter
321(Timber Taxation), except land used exclusively for growing cultured Christmas
trees as defined below or land described in ORS 321.267 (3) or 321.824 (3).

     Cultured Christmas trees” means trees:

    a.      Grown        on    lands   used   exclusively for that purpose,              capable   of preparation      by
            intensive cultivation methods such as plowing or tuming over the soil;

     b.     Of a marketable species;

    c.      Managed           to produce trees meeting U.S. No. 2 or better standards for Christmas
            trees as specified by the Agriculture Marketing Services of the United States
            Department of Agriculture; and

    d.      Evidencing periodic maintenance practices of shearing for Douglas fir and pine
            species, weed and brush control and one or more of the following practices:
            Basal pruning, fertilizing,            insect     and     disease        control,   stump    culture,     soil
            cultivation, irrigation.

                                                                                 a         NA:
Chapter1 — Introductory Provisions                                            2) G Ww     wu 4 oO a.
December     16, 2009
                                                                                                             Page 1-17

Current employment of land for farm use includes:

a. Farmland, the operation or use of which is subject to any farm-related government
    program;

b.   Land   lying fallow for one          year as a normal         and    regular      requirement          of good
     agricultural husbandry;

c.   Land planted in orchards or other perennials, other                             than    land     specified     in
     subparagraph (d) of this paragraph, prior to maturity;

d.   Land   not   in     an   exclusive    famm   use     zone    which        has    not    been      eligible    for
     assessment at special farm use value in the year prior to planting the current
     crop and has been planted in orchards, cultured Christmas trees or vineyards for
     at least three years;

e.   Wasteland,        in an exclusive farm       use   zone,     dry or covered            with water,      neither
     economically       tillable nor grazeable,         lying    in or adjacent to and                in common
     ownership with a farm          use land and which           is not currently being              used   for any
     economic farm use;

f.   Except for land under a single family dwelling, land under buildings supporting
     accepted farm practices, including the processing facilities allowed by ORS
     215.213 (1)(x) and 215.283 (1)(u) and the processing of farm crops into biofuel
     as commercial activities in conjunction with farm use under ORS                                215.213 (2)(c)
     and 215,283 (2a);

g. Water impoundments lying in or adjacent to and in common ownership with farm
   use land;

h. Any land constituting a woodlot, not to exceed 20 acres, contiguous to and
   owned by the owner of land specially valued for farm use even if the land
     constituting the woodlot is not utilized in conjunction with farm use;

i.   Land lying idle for no more than one year where the absence of farming activity is
     due to the illness of the farmer or member of the farmer's immediate family. For
     purposes of this paragraph, illness includes injury or infirmity whether or not such
     illness results in death;

j.   Any land described under ORS 321.267(3) or 321.824(3);

k.   Land used for the processing of farm crops into biofuel, as defined                                    in ORS
     315.141, if:

                                                        20090494
                                                                         X
                                                                          Ge

                                                                                Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                 December 16, 2009
Page 1-18

            (1) Only the crops of the landowner are being processed;

            (2} The biofuel from all of the crops purchased for processing into biofuel is used
                on the farm of the landowner, or

            (3) The landowner is custom processing crops into biofuel from other landowners
                in the area for their use or sale.

    Accepted Farming Practice
    As used in this subsection, “accepted farming practice’ means a mode of operation
    that is common          to farms of a similar nature, necessary for the operation of such
    farms to obtain a profit in money,       and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm
    use.

Fence, Protective - A fence at least six feet tall designed to restrict passage through the
fence. A protective fence includes stockade, woven wood, chain link and others, but not
split rail or primarily barbed wire.

Fence, Site-Obscuring - A fence consisting of wood, metal, or masonry, or an evergreen
hedge or other evergreen planting, arranged in such a way as to obstruct vision.

Floor Area - The sum of the horizontal areas of each floor of a building, measured from
the interior faces of the exterior walls.

Flow - The volume of water passing through a hydroelectric facility during a given period.
Flow is expressed in cubic feet per second.

Foster Home - A home licensed by the State and providing shelter and food to not more
than five (5) persons in addition to the primary owner or occupant of the home.

Frontage       - All the property fronting on one (1) side of a street between    intersecting or
intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway and/or dead-end
street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage on the side of the street which it
intercepts.

Future Street - A proposed right-of-way as may be designated by the Planning
Commission, or such other agency or authority as provided for herein, which street is
necessary for the future subdivision of property, shown on the subdivision plats and/or
maps, but that the present dedication and construction of such street is not warranted.

Garage,       Public - A structure in which     are provided facilities for the repair of motor
vehicles,   including  body   and  fender  repair,  painting, rebuilding, reconditioning,
uphoistering, or other vehicle maintenance repair, or where such vehicles are parked or
stored.
                                                                   pom
                                                                                 qe
                                                                   o>
                                                                   CO
                                                                  [oe

                                                                                      t=
                                                                  (we)
                                                                  cS

Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                              Page 1-19

Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation) - The lowest point of elevation of the finished
surface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building and a point five (5) feet
distant from said wall, or the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground
between the exterior wall of a building and the property line if it is less than five (5) feet
distant from said wall.

Golf Course - An area of land with highly maintained natural turf laid out for the game
of golf with a series of 9 or more holes, each including a tee, a fairway, a putting green,
and often one or more natural or artificial hazards.

Gross Building Area - The total area taken on a horizontal plane at the mean grade level
of the principal building, and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches,
terraces, steps, roof overhang and balconies.

Group Day Care Home - A facility located in a single-family dwelling that is certified by the
Children's Services Division to care for six (6) to twelve (12) children under the age of
thirteen (13) at one time. A group day care home must be within the home of the care
provider, and is considered a residential use in residential and commercial zones.            (added
2/89)

Group Home - A licensed home maintained and supervised by adults for the purpose of
providing care, food and lodging for retarded adults, elderly persons, or children under the
age of eighteen (18) years, unattended by parent(s) or guardian(s) where the number of
unrelated persons living together as one household commonly exceeds five.

Guest House - Living quarters within a separate structure, with no kitchen or kitchen
facilities, located on the same lot-of-record with the primary dwelling, and occupied solely
by members of the owner's family or temporary guests. Such quarters shall not be rented
or otherwise used as a separate dwelling unit.         See Section 4.170 for "Guest House"
development standards. (Revised 1/92)

Guy Wire - A cable or wire used as a semi-flexible tension support between a guy anchor
and a tower.

Half Street - One-half of the right-of-way of a public way equally divided by the property or
border line, dedicated to the public together with the total width, here, of the public way by
all owners, at the time of the recording of any plat including such haif street or way.

Head - The vertical distance from the highest water level of a dam, diversion, or intake for
a hydroelectric facility to the elevation where water from the facility is discharged.       Head is
expressed in feet.

Health Officer - The Wasco-Sherman County District Health Unit Officer.

                                                NAKA        a
                                          20090454
                                                                    Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                                     December 16, 2009
Page 1-20

Height of Building - The vertical distance measured from the adjoining curb level to the
highest point of the roof surface of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, and to the
mean height level between the eaves and ridge for a gable, hip or gambrel roof; provided,
however, that where buildings are set back from the street line, the height of the building
may be measured from the average elevation of the finished grade at the front of the
building.

High Value Land (Per OAR                 660-33-020(8)(a)    - Means    land   in   a tract   composed
predominantly of soils that are:

    a.      Irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class | or Il; or

    b. Not irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class | or Il.

In addition to that land described above, high value farmland, if in Eastem Oregon,
includes tracts growing specified perennials as demonstrated by the most recent aerial
photography of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture taken prior to November 4, 1993. "Specified perennials" means
perennials grown for market or research purposes including, but not limited to, nursery
stock, berries, fruits, nuts, Christmas trees, or vineyards, but not including seed crops, hay,
pasture or alfalfa. (added 12/96)

High Water Line or Mark - The highest water level a stream or lake reaches during
normal seasonai run-off.

Home Occupation - Any lawful activity carried on within a dwelling or other building
normally associated with uses permitted in the zone and which said activity is secondary to
the primary use of the property for residential purposes. (Revised 1/92)

Horizontal Axis WECS              - A WECS   on which the rotor axis substantially is parallel to the
ground.

Horticulture - The cultivation of plants, garden crops, trees and/or nursery stock.

Hospital, General - An institution providing health services, primarily for in-patients, and
medical, psychiatric or surgical diagnosis and care of the sick or injured, including as an
integral part of the institution such related facilities as laboratories, out-patient facilities,
central service facilities, retail facilities, for the needs of patients, staff and doctors' offices,
and residential facilities for staff and patients.

Hospital, Mental - A hospital used exclusively for the treatment of persons suffering from
nervous or mental disorders.

Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                     Page 1-21

Hotel - A building or portion thereof of more than five (5) sleeping rooms designed or used
for occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, and in which no
provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.

Hunting Preserve - Pursuant to ORS 497.248 Subsections (1) - (4).                The Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife Commission issues a private hunting preserve license if
the preserve contains not more than 1,280 acres and is on one continuous tract of land
owned by the applicant or leased by the applicant for a period of at least five years.

Hunting, fishing or shooting preserve              - Shall   comply   with    provisions      of Oregon
Administrative Rule 635, Division 47.

Hydroelectric      Facility   - All aspects   of a project   necessary    for or related        to    power
generation including, but not limited to, the generator, dams, diversions, impoundments,
conduits, penstocks, fish ladders, navigation locks, fish screens, recreation facilities,
transmission facilities and related buildings, structures and storage areas.

immediate Family Member - Family member of the first degree of kinship or equivalent
thereof.

Industrial - The use of land or structures to treat, process, manufacture, or store materials
or products. (added 2/89)

Irrigated - means watered by an artificial or controlled means, such as sprinklers,
furrows, ditches, or spreader dikes. An area or tract is “irrigated” if it is currently
watered, or has established rights to use water for irrigation, including such tracts that
receive water for irrigation from a water or irrigation district or other provider. For the
purposes of this division, an area or tract within a water or irrigation district that was
once irrigated shall continue to be considered “irrigated” even if the irrigation water was
removed or transferred to another tract.

Junk Yard - Any property where persons are engaged in breaking up,                          dismantling,
sorting, distributing, buying or selling of any scrap, waste materials or junk.

Kennel - The operation of any business or the participation in any activity in which five (5)
dogs with permanent canine teeth, or which are more than six (6) months of age, are kept
on the premises.

Kilovolt (kV) - The unit of voltage of potential difference which equals 1,000 volts.

Kitchen - A place where food is cooked or prepared as well as the place where the
facilities and equipment used to cook, prepare and store food are located. (Added 1/92)

                                                      20090454
                                                                         Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                          December 16, 2009
Page 1-22

Landscaping - Improving the aesthetics of a piece of land by the grading, cleanng and
use of natural or artificial material.

Loading Space - An off-street space or berth on the same lot or parcel with a building or
use, or contiguous to a group of buildings or uses, for the temporary parking of a vehicle
while loading or unloading persons, merchandise or material, and which space or berth
abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.

Local Access Road — Public road over which the public has a right of use that is a matter
of public record and was legally created at the time of dedication but that is not a county
road, state highway or federal road. Local access roads are privately maintained.

Local Road or Street - A road or street primarily used to provide direct access to
adjacent land uses; characterized by short roadway distances, slow speeds, and low
volumes; offers a high level of accessibility; serves passenger cars, pedestrians, and
bicycles, but not through trucks. Local roads may be paved or unpaved.    The _ typical
average daily traffic is less than 250.

Lot - A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.

Lot Area -The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.

Lot, Corner - A lot fronting on two (2) or more streets at their junction, said streets forming
with each other an angle of forty-five (45) degrees up to and including one hundred
thirty-five (135) degrees.

Lot Depth - The perpendicular distance measured from the mid-point of the front lot line to
the mid-point of the opposite lot line.

Lot, Interior - A lot other than a comer lot.

Lot Lines - The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.

Lot Line, Front - in the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot from the street; and
in the case of a comer lot, a line separating the narrowest frontage of the lot from the
street.

Lot Line, Rear - The line dividing one lot from another and on the opposite side of the lot
from the front lot line, and in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line ten (10)
feet in length within the lot parallel to and at the maximum distance frorn the front lot line.

Lot Line, Side - In the case of an interior lot, a line separating one lot from the abutting lot
or lots fronting on the same street, and in the case of a comer lot, a line separating one lot
from the abutting lot or lots fronting on the same street.

Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                            Page 1-23

Lot, Through - An interior lot having frontage on two (2) streets.

Lot Width - The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right angles to
the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.

Manufacture - he processing or converting of raw, unfinished, or finished materials or
products or any combination thereof into an article or substance of different character, or
for use for a different character or purpose.         (added 2/89)

Map - A final diagram, drawing or other writing concerning a land division.

Medical      Hardship   — Means      a temporary       circumstance        caused     by serious       illness     or
infirmity,   not to exceed   two years     in duration,         and   authorized    by a licensed          medical
practitioner   (Medical Doctor, Physicians Assistant or Nurse Practitioner).

Megawatt (MW) - The electrical unit of power which equals 1,000,000 watts.

Metes and Bounds - The method used to describe a tract or tracts of land for the
purposes of ownership or for building development, as contrasted with the description of a
part of a properly approved and recorded subdivision plat by the lot number and block
designation.

Mobile Home -

    a. A residential trailer, a structure constructed for movement on the public highways,
         that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
         occupancy, is being used for residential purposes and was constructed before
         January 1, 1962.

    b.   A mobile house, a structure constructed for movement on the public highways, that
         has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human
         occupancy, is being used for residential purposes and was constructed between
         January 1, 1962, and June 15, 1976, and met the construction requirements of
         Oregon mobile home law in effect at the time of construction.

    c.   A_manufactured      home,    a   structure        constructed    for   movement        on   the     public
         highways, that has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for
         human occupancy, is being used for residential purposes and was constructed in
         accordance with federal manufactured housing construction and safety standards
         regulations in effect at the time of construction. (revised 2/89)

Mobile Home Community - A mobile home development and related utilities and
facilities, including the mobile homes and all of the people living within the development.

                                                       2        poodoe
                                                           o>

                                                                                Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                 December    16, 2009
Page 1-24

Mobile Home for Storage - Mobile homes may not be used as storage buildings in any
zone.

Mobile Home Lot - A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home and the exclusive
use of its occupants.

Mobile Home             Park - Any place where four (4) or more mobile homes are located within
five hundred (500) feet of one another on a                  lot, tract or parcel of land under the same
ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space for rent to any
person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or use of facilities or to offer
space free in connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.

Mobile Home Space - A plot or parcel of land within the mobile home park, designed to
accommodate one (1) mobile home.

Mobile Home Stand - That part of a mobile home space which has been reserved for the
placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures, or additions.

Modular        Unit      - A fabricated,    transportable    building     unit,     other than    a mobile     home,
designed to be incorporated at a building site into a structure to be used for residential
and/or commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes, with all of the following
characteristics:

    a.      Having an electrical meter base permanently attached to the structure.

     b.     Designed and built to the specification of the State or County Building Code for
            conventional structures in effect at the time of its construction.

    c.      Having a permanent foundation.

Motor Home              - A    self-propelled   recreation   vehicle    that      is not   used   as a permanent
residence.

Natural Areas - Land areas reserved from development or modification for the protection
of animal species and other natural areas as identified in the Wasco County
Comprehensive Plan.

Neighborhood -                In relation to Nonconforming      Uses     a neighborhood           shall   include the
surrounding            areas whose      use and    enjoyment of their property would                  be materially
impacted as a result of the proposed alteration.

Negotiate - Any activity preliminary to the execution of a binding agreement for the sale of
land in a subdivision or partition, including but not limited to, advertising, solicitation, and
promotion of such sale of land.

Chapter 1 ~ Introductory Provisions
December    16, 2009
                                                                                                        Page 1-25

Nonconforming Structure or Use - A lawful existing structure or use at the time this
Ordinance or any amendment thereto becomes effective, which does not conform to the
requirements of the zone in which it is located.

Nursing Home - Any home or institution maintained or operating for the nursing and care
of four (4) or more ill or infirm adults, not requiring hospital care or hospital facilities.

Official Map - Specifically describes the location of streets, highways, public parks,
drainage systems and other public installations, both existing and planned, in the
community. Once land has been placed on the official map, the Ordinance so providing
restricts any further construction with the planned rights-of-way. The Official Map helps to
implement the comprehensive plan.

Operational High Pool Elevation (EPD 6): The high pool elevation for Pine Hollow
and Rock Creek Reservoirs shall be considered to be the approved operational outfall
elevation determined by Oregon Water Resources Department.

O.R.S. - The Oregon Revised Statutes.

Owner     - The   individual,   firm,   association,   syndicate,   partnership,   or corporation       having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land            sought to be subdivided         to commence          and
maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.

(Legal) Parcel - A unit of land created as follows:

    a. A lotinan existing, duly recorded subdivision; or

    b.   A parcel in an existing, duly recorded major or minor land partition; or

    c.   By deed or land sales contract priorto September 4, 1974.

   A unit of land shall not be considered a separate parcel simply because the subject
   tract of land;

    a.   Is a unit of land created solely to establish a separate tax account;

    b.   Lies in different counties;

         Lies in different sections or government lots;
   7)

    d.   Lies in different land use or zoning designations; or

         Is dissected by a public or private road.

                                                              Veh    ap   aa
                                                          2 9 Uu 9 u 4 eo “Chapter 1 ~ Introductory Provisions
                                                                                             December    16, 2009
Page 1-26

Park (Model) Trailer - Means a vehicle built on a single chassis, mounted on wheels,
designed to provide recreational, seasonal or temporary living quarters which may be
connected to utilities necessary for operation of installed fixtures and appliances and with
a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square feet when in the setup mode. Sucha
vehicle shall be referred to, and identified by the manufacturer or converter, as a
recreational vehicle. (OAR-918-500-0005 (30))”

Parking Lot, Private - Open off-street area used for temporary parking of more than three
(3) automobiles, and available with or without charge, and with the permission of owner
only.

Parking Lot, Public - Open off-street area used for temporary parking of more than three
(3) automobiles, and available for public use with or without charge.

Parking Space - A minimum gross area available for the parking of a standard American
automobile.

Parkway - A parklike major thoroughfare with broad rights-of-way and wide median areas,
designed and landscaped to furnish a safe and pleasing drive between parks, scenic
areas and principal objectives.

Partition - Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land partitioned as
defined in this section. (Revised 1/92)

Partition      Land      - To divide an area or tract of land into two or three parcels within a
calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous units of land
under single ownership at the beginning of such year. “Partition land" does not include
divisions of land resulting from the creation of cemetery lots; and "partition land" does not
include any adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common                   boundary where any
additional      parcel     is not created   and   where   the existing   parcel   reduced   in size by the
adjustment is not reduced below the minimum lot size established by an applicable zoning
ordinance.        "Partition land" does not include the sale of a lot in a recorded           subdivision,
even though the lot may have been acquired prior to the sale with other contiguous lots or
property by a single owner.

Party - With respect to administrative actions, the following persons or entities only, who
file a timely statement or request for hearing as provided by general provisions of this
Ordinance, are hereby defined as a party:

    a.      The applicant and all owners or contract purchasers of record, as shown in the files
            of the Wasco County Assessor's Office, of the property which is the subject of the
            application.

                                                                         20096454
                                                                           m    ag

Chapter 1 - introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                             Page 1-27

   b. All property owners of record, as provided in (a) above, within the notification area,
      as described in section 2.080 A.2., of the property which is the subject of the
        application.

   c.   A Citizen Advisory Group pursuant to the Citizen Involvement Program              approved
        pursuant to O.R.S. 197.160.

   d.   Any affected unit of local govemment or public district or state or federal agency.

   e.   Any other person, or his representative, who is specifically, personally or adversely
        affected in the subject matter, as determined by the Approving Authority. (Revised
        1/92)

Pathway - A walkway conforming to Chapter 21 that is not within a street right-of-way.

Pedestrian Way - A way or right-of-way for pedestrian traffic.

Person - An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, syndicate, or
any legal entity, and including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar
representative thereof.

Place of Public Assembly - A structure which is designed to accommodate more than
twenty-five (25) persons at one time for such purposes as deliberation, education, worship,
shopping, entertainment or amusement.

Planning Control Area - An area in a state of incomplete           development        within which
special control is to be exercised over land partitioning.

Plat - A special and final map, diagram or drawing of a subdivision, major or minor
partition prepared from completed information, containing writings, descriptions, locations,
specification, dedications, provisions, and information conceming a subdivision, being
drawn to scale to geometrically represent defined land and setting forth all mathematical
data necessary to the identification, location and perpetuation of the various land
boundaries indicated thereon, without recourse to supplementary metes and bounds
description for conveyances.

Porch - Outside walking area, the floor of which is elevated more than eight (8) inches
from the ground.

Prevailing Wind Direction - Within 45 degrees of the direction from which wind flows for
at least 20 percent of the year based on at least one year's site-specific recorded wind
data.

                                                               99009045"
                                                                    Chapter 1 — {ntroductory Provisions
                                                                                     December 16, 2009
Page 1-28

Private Easement Road - A minimum 30 foot wide private easement in any zone that
provides ingress and egress to a public or private road for not more than three (3) units
of land and serves not more than three (3) units of land.

Private Road - A road in a resource zone (F-1, F-2, & A-1) whose primary purpose is to
provide access for resource activities, that was accepted by the County Governing Body
pursuant to Section 21.300 of this Ordinance or has been previously recognized                     by the
County Governing Body and which is not public, but which intersects with an existing
public road.

Property       Line   Adjustment      - The   relocation of   a cornmon   property      line between   two
abutting properties where an additional unit of land is not created and where the existing
unit of land reduced in size by the adjustment complies with any additional zoning
regulations.

Public Road - A road over which the public has a right of use that is a matter of public
record and was legally created at the time of dedication.

Ramada        - A freestanding roof or shade structure installed above the roof of a mobile
home that provides protection from rain, snow, sun or other forms of inclement weather.

Recreational Vehicle or Camping Vehicle - A vacation trailer or other unit with or without
motive power which is designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for
recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes, and is identified as a
recreational vehicle by the manufacturer. A recreational or camping                      vehicle shall be
considered a dwelling unit if any of the following are true:

     a.     It is connected to a sewer system (including septic tank) except for the purpose of
            emptying the holding tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

     b.     It is connected to water or electrical lines except for purposes of charging the
            batteries or filling water tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

            NOTE: Allowances can be made for subsections a and b above if in the opinion
            of the Compliance Officer evidence suggests that the use of the RV is occasional
            and temporary for the purpose of accommodating visitors

     c.     It is occupied for more than 60 days, on the same property, in any consecutive 12
            month period; or

     d,     It is parked on property that is without a legally placed dwelling for more than 30
            days during any 6 month period.
                                                                     pane
                                                                              Qa
                                                                    aloe)

                                                                     i]

                                                                                   [=
                                                                    o>

                                                                     )
                                                               wo

Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 1-29

Recreational Vehicle Park - A lot or tract where the primary land use is the parking, on a
fee or other basis, occupied by motor homes, truck campers, travel trailers, or other
recreational vehicles.

Replat - The act of platting the lots, parcels and easements in a recorded subdivision or
partition plat to achieve a reconfiguration of the existing subdivision or partition piat, or to
increase or decrease the number of lots in a subdivision, or to correct an irregularity or
error in the original plat. (Added 1/92)

Reserved Open Space - Land areas reserved through                     public       dedication,    public
ownership, easements, covenants, or other devices for                 public        use and      limited
development.

Residential Trailer - A portable residence that is transportable on public highways by
permanently attached axles, the dimensions of which do not exceed thirty-two (32) feet in
length, or eight (8) feet in width, or any equivalent dimension combination.

Restaurant - A public establishment for the purpose of selling meals to customers.

Retirement Center - A building or group of buildings containing separate dwelling units
designed for and occupied principally (at least one occupant of each dwelling unit), by
persons over the age of sixty (60) years, excluding convalescent and nursing care as a
function of the center.

Reversed Corner Lot - A comer lot where the street                 side     line   is   substantially    a
continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.

Review Types -

   a. Type | (Ministerial/Nondiscretionary)
       These procedures are decided by the Director, or the Director's designee without
       public notice or public hearing. They do not require interpretation or the exercise
       of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval standards. Type | does not
       qualify as a “land use decision” under Oregon            Revised Statute (ORS)
       197.015(11).

   b. Type Il (Administrative/Discretionary)
       These procedures are decided by the Director or the Director's designee with
       notice, as established by Chapter 2, and appeal period established by ORS
       215.416(11).   They do require interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal
       judgment in evaluating approval standards and qualify as a land use decision
       under ORS     197.015(11).   An appeal    of a Type    Il decision      becomes       a Type     Ill
       review.

                                                        20690458
                                                                     Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                                                      December 16, 2009
Page 1-30

      c.    Type Ill (Quasi Judicial/Planning Commission or County Governing Body)

            Pianning Commission
            These procedures are initially heard and decided solely by the Planning
            Commission or on appeal from the Planning Director with the hearings process,
            notice and appeal period governed by ORS             197.763.   They do require
            interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval
            standards and qualify as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

            County Governing Body
            These procedures are initially heard and decided solely by the County Governing
            Body or on appeal from the Planning Commission with the hearings process,
            notice and appeal period governed by ORS             197.763.   They do require
            interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval
            standards and qualify as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

      d. Type IV (Legislative/County Governing Body)
            These procedures are heard and decided solely by the County Goveming Body
            after an initia! hearing and  recommendation       is made     by the Planning
            Commission. The hearings process, notice and appeal period are govemed by
            ORS 197.763. They do require substantial interpretation or the exercise of policy
            or legal judgment and qualify as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

Right-of-Way - The area between boundary lines of a road, street or other easement.
Right-of-way includes passageways such as freeways, pedestrian connections, alleys,
and all streets. A right-of-way shall be dedicated or deeded to the public for public use
and        under the control of a public agency,      or it shall be dedicated        or deeded   and
privately owned.

Road - The entire right-of-way of any public or private way that provides ingress to or
egress from property by means of vehicles or other means or that provides travel between
places by means of vehicles. "Road" includes, but is not limited to:

      a.    Ways described as streets, highways, throughways, or alleys;

      b.    Road related structures that are in the right-of-way such as tunnels,         culverts or
            similar structures; and

      c.    Structures that provide for continuity of the right-of-way such as bridges.

Roadway - The portion or portions of a right-of-way developed for vehicular traffic.

Rotor - 1)          A system of rotating aerodynamic elements and hub assembly attached to a
shaft that converts the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical energy; 2)                Rotating
element in an electrical generator.

                                                                     mtr      Aanm-
Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions                             2 9 u +) Y 4 ot
December     16, 2009
                                                                                               Page 1-31

Rotor Diameter - Twice the distance from the center of rotation to the outermost point of
the blade.

Sale or Sell - Includes every disposition or transfer of land in a subdivision or partition or
an interest or estate therein.

School, Commercial - A building where instruction is given to pupils in arts, crafts, or
trades, and operated as a commerciai enterprise, as distinguished from schools endowed
and/or supported by taxation.

School, Elementary - A school offering instruction to one (1) or more grades, between
and including the fifth through the eighth, exclusively, or in combination with grades lower
than the fifth.

School,   High    - A school offering   instruction to one (1) or more     grades,     between      and
including the ninth through the twelfth, or in combination with the seventh and eighth
grades.

School, Nursery - A school offering        instruction and   guided   activity to kindergarten        or
pre-kindergarten classes.

School, Primary - A school offering instruction to one (1) or more grades, between and
including kindergarten through the fourth.

School, Private or Parochial - A school under the control of and financed primarily by a
religious or philanthropic and non-profit institution operating in conformance with relevant
State Department of Education regulations.

School, Public - A school under the control of and financed by legally constituted public
school districts in the State of Oregon.

Sectional Home - Defined the same as a modular home.

Sensitive Wildlife Habitat - Land areas incorporated in wildlife preserves, refuges, or
game management areas; land areas identified as winter range by the Wildlife
Commission,      State of Oregon; and land areas providing habitat for rare or endangered
species listed by the Wildlife Commission, State of Oregon, or by the Bureau of Sport
Fisheries and Wildlife, United States Department of the Interior.

Series partition/ Series partitioned lands - A series of partitions of land resulting in
the creation of four or more parcels over a period of more than one calendar year.

                                                                 2009645"
                                                                  ney   er

                                                                      Chapter 1 - introductory Provisions
                                                                                       December 16, 2009
Page 1-32

Series Partitioner - Means any person who causes land to be series partitioned into a
series partition, or who undertakes to develop a series partition, but does not include a
public agency or officer authorized by law to make partitions.

Sewage - Water-carried human or animal waste and kitchen, bath, or laundry waste, from
a building, together with such groundwater infiltration and surface water as may be
present.

Shooting           Course    - Any     lot(s) or parcel(s) where         target shooting            (excluding     hunting
preserves) is conducted on a commercial basis.

Sidewalk - A pedestrian walkway with permanent surfacing.

Sign        - An     identification,   description,   illustration,     or    device    which         is affixed     to   or
represented, directly or indirectly, upon a building, structure, or land and which directs
attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution or business. Each display surface
of a sign other than two (2) surfaces parallel and back-to-back on the same structure shall
be considered a sign.

Sign, Advertising - A sign which directs attention to a business, product, activity, or
service which is not necessarily conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where such
a sign is located.

Significant         Adverse      Effect   - A   consequence           of a facility    that     ireparably         reduces
management            of or damages        a resource     listed as          a standard       and     identified    in the
comprehensive plan and the Wasco County Land Use and Development ordinances.

Significant Archaeological Sites - Sites possessing valuable artifacts or evidence of
prehistoric cultures, including areas catalogued by the National Park Service, United
States Department of the Interior, and areas identified by academic institutions.

Significant Change - A change in an existing facility which increases the impact of the
facility on abutting properties. This provision shall be interpreted broadly to invoke review
of any potentially significant change.     However, a significant change shall not include
ordinary and regular maintenance, actions such as research, monitoring, and impact
mitigation that were authorized or required by law. Significant change shall not include
other actions, such as reconducting, which may increase the useful life of the facility
without increasing long-term, off-site impacts.

Significant Interference With Wind Access - A ten (10) percent decrease in wind speed
caused by an obstruction(s).

Single-wide Mobile Home - One (1) complete living unit constructed on a single chassis.

Slope - An incline in an oblique direction from the perpendicular.

                                                                                LON       ARs
Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions                                     2 G G 3 U 4 ot
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                  Page 1-33

Solid Waste - All putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including, but not limited to,
garbage,   rubbish, refuse, ashes, waste paper and cardboard, grass clippings,
composts, sewer sludge, residential, commercial, and industrial appliances, equipment
and fumiture, discarded or inoperable vehicles, vehicle parts or vehicle tires, manure,
vegetable or animal solid and semisolid waste and dead animals. The term Solid Waste
does not include:

   a.    Materials     used   for fertilizer or for other   productive   purposes   on     land    in the
         growing and harvesting of crops or the raising of fowl or animals;

   b.    Septic tank and cesspool pumping or chemical toilet waste;

   c.    Reusable beverage containers as defined in ORS 459A.725; and

   d. Source separated principal recyclable materials as defined in ORS Chapter 459
      and the Rules promulgated thereunder, which have been purchased or
      exchanged for fair market value.

Special District - Any unit of local govemment other than city or county, authorized and
regulated by statute. Special district includes, but is not limited to: water control districts,
irrigation districts, port districts, regional air quality control authorities, fire districts, mass
transit districts, and sanitary districts.

Special Road         District — For the purposes of improving roads, special road districts may
be formed from contiguous territory lying within the county and not incorporated within the
limits of a city. Special road districts are governed by a board of commissioners, either
appointed or elected. Special road districts have the following powers: to make contracts;
to acquire, hold, receive and dispose of real and personal property; to sue and be sued; to
exercise the power of eminent domain; to assess, levy and collect taxes on all taxable
property within the district; and to do any other act necessary to carry out purposes of the
special road district. See ORS 371.305.

Stable, Private - A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned                    by the
occupants of the premises and which are not kept for remuneration or profit.

Story - That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and the
upper surface of the floor next above it, except the top story shall be that portion of a
building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof
above.

Story, Half - A story under a gable, hip or gambre! roof, the wall plates of which on at least
two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than two (2) feet above the floor of such story.

                                                     2000C454
                                                       fy a, A
                                                               Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
                                                                                         December 16, 2009
Page 1-34

Street - The entire width between the right-of-way lines of every way for vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, and includes terms, "roads", "highways", "land", "place", “avenue”,
"alley", and other similar designations.

Street Plug or Reserve Strip - A narrow strip of land controlling access to a street or half
street, title to which is dedicated to the County and the disposal of which land shall be
placed within the jurisdiction of the County Goveming Body for disposal under conditions
approved by the Commission.

Structure - Anything constructed, erected or air inflated, permanent or temporary, which
requires location on the ground. Among other things, structure includes buildings, walls,
fences, billboards, poster panels and parking lots.                Retaining walls less than four (4) feet in
height are not considered structures for the sake of general property line setbacks.

Subdivide - To effect a subdivision, as applied to this Ordinance.

Subdivider - Any person, as defined herein, who undertakes proceedings to effect a
subdivision of land, including changes in street or lot lines, for the purpose of transfer of
ownership of development.

Subdivide Land - To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots within a calendar
year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous units of land under a
single ownership at the beginning of such year.

Subdivision - Either an act of subdividing land or an area or tract of land subdivided as
defined in this section.

Swept Area - Area perpendicular to the wind velocity that a rotor will cover during one
complete rotation.

Tax Lot - An        identification number assigned              by the Oregon    Department of Revenue to
delineate property ownership for the purpose of taxation.                 (Added 1/92)

Tentative Plan Map for Minor Partition - A drawing or diagram prepared from completed
information, in compliance with regulations and ordinances adopted pursuant to O.R.S.
92.046,      and    regulations       of O.R.S.     209.205,     representing    defined     land,   setting    forth
intentions     in   writing,    and     including    relative    mathematical     and      descriptive   data     for
preparation of conveyances by metes and bounds descriptions.

Theoretical Horsepower - The product of the flow used by a hydroelectric facility,
expressed in cubic feet per second, multiplied by the head, expressed in feet, divided by
8.8.

Through Lot - Lot having frontage on two streets.

                              -
Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions                                        2    va YOM       AR.
December 16, 2009                                                               OG a] ud ot
                                                                                                           Page 1-35

Tiedowns - Strapping or cables attached to the mobile home and connected to anchors
embedded in the ground, which secure a mobile home from damage                                   and movement
during high winds.

Total WECS Height - The height of a WECS              measured from ground level to the highest
vertical extension of a WECS.

Tourist Court - A group of attached or detached buildings containing separate rooms or
living units for the temporary use of automobile travelers, having garage attached or
parking space adjacent to every unit, including auto courts, motels, or motor cottages.

Tract - One or more contiguous lots or parcels in the same ownership.

Transmission         Facility   - The   conductors,   lines,   structures,          buildings,     corridor,    and
construction staging and assembly areas associated with the transmission of electricity
from major power sources to the regional power grid and from the regional power grid to
the local power distribution system. Such a facility operates at a current of 230 kilovolts
(230kV) or less. Such a facility does not include electric power substations, switching
stations, or generating facilities.

Travel Trailer - A recreation vehicle that is not used as a permanent residence, is
transportable on public highways by permanently attached axles, and does not exceed
thirty-two (32) feet in length, or eight (8) feet in width, or any equivalent dimension
combination.

Truck Camper - A recreation vehicle, camper, or canopy that fits onto the bed of a pickup
or flat-bed truck, and that is not used as a permanent residence.

Unique     Ecologic     Associations     - Land   areas   where    species          composition,       vegetative
characteristics, or systems variations produce ecologic patterns of unusual and rare quality
that cannot be observed elsewhere in Wasco County.

Unique Geological Features - Fossil beds, formation type locations, and major structural
features that cannot be observed elsewhere in the State of Oregon.

Unit of Land - An area of contiguous land at least of sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage of an area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are required by this Ordinance; such property shall have frontage on a
public street, or such other access approved by the Commission or Court under provisions
of this ordinance.     A unit of land may be:

   a. A single lot of record;

    b.   A lot as defined herein;

                                                      2009045                ‘d
                                                                                  Chapter 1 — introductory Provisions
                                                                                                   December 16, 2009
Page 1-36

    c. A parcel, as defined herein.

Use - The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for
which either land or a building is not or may be occupied or maintained.

Use, Conditional - The term applied to use which may be permitted by the application for,
the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit.

Use Permit - A permit allowing a specific use.

Use, Professional - The place of business of a person engaged in a profession such as
accountant, architect, artist, attorney-at-law, professional engineer, land surveyor,
insurance agent,         real estate broker,     landscape   architect, or practitioner of the human
healing arts.

Use, Prohibited - A use not allowed in a zoning district.

Utility Facilities Necessary for Public Service - Facilities for providing communication,
water, sewers or transportation and facilities accessory to energy facilities.

Utility Facility Service Lines - Utility lines and accessory facilities or structures that end
at the point where the utility service is received by the customer and that are located on
one or more of the following:

    a. A public right of way;

     b.     Land immediately adjacent to a public right of way, provided the written consent of
            all adjacent property owners has been obtained; or

    c. The property to be served by the utility.

Variance - A specific deviation from a part of this Ordinance.

Vehicle       Site   - The    area    or place   used   for parking   occupied       residential   trailers or
recreational vehicles, and may include sewer, water, gas or electrical hook-ups. Places
used to store unoccupied recreational vehicles are not considered to be recreational
vehicle sites.

Vertical Axis WECS - A WECS which rotor axis is vertical.

Veterinary Hospital - An institution providing overnight medical services for sick and
injured animals, and including such related facilities as laboratories, X-ray, and boarding.

                                                                        r        ,    Amy
                                                                      20096454
Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 1-37

Veterinary Office - An office which provides medical services for sick and injured animals
on an out-patient basis.

Walkway - A sidewalk or pathway, including access ways, providing a pedestrian
connection that is improved to County standards, or to other roadway authority
standards, as applicable. See also, Access, Pathway, Sidewalk.

Water Dependent Uses - Uses that absolutely require, and cannot exist without,
access or proximity to, or siting within, a water body to fulfill their basic purpose. Water
dependent uses include but are not limited to: docks, wharfs, piers, certain fish and
wildlife structures, boat launch facilities and marinas. Dwellings, parking lots, spoil and
dump sites, restaurants, trailer parks, resorts, and motels are not water dependent.

Water Related Uses - Uses not directly dependent upon access to a water body, but
whose presence facilitates public and private access to and enjoyment of a water body.
Water related uses include but are not limited to: boardwalks, trails, observatories,
decks, and interpretive aids. Dwellings, parking lots, spoil and dump sites, restaurants,
trailer parks, resorts, and motels are not water related.

Waterbody - A lake, wetland, or Class | or Class II stream.

WECS (Wind Energy Conversion System) - A device that converts the kinetic energy in
the wind into electric   energy.     The    WECS   includes   all parts    of the     system      except
transmission lines.

WECS    Site - The lot or lots upon which a WECS        is situated.      If abutting lots are used
primarily for WECS, the WECS site encompasses all such abutting lots.

WECS   Tower - Subsystem of        a WECS   that supports the rotor, or other collection device,
above-ground.

Wetland - Land areas, excluding those defined in ORS 197.767, where excess water is
the dominant factor determining the nature of soil development and the types of plant and
animal communities living at the soil surface.     Wetland soils retain sufficient moisture to
support aquatic or semi-aquatic plant life. In marine and estuarine areas, wetlands are
bounded at the lower extreme by extreme low water, in freshwater areas, by a depth of six
feet. The areas below wetlands are submerged lands. (revised 2/89)

Wind Energy Facility - A WECS or group of WECS including all parts of the system
except transmission lines. Such a facility has a nominal electric generating capacity of 25
MW or less.

Wind Farm - A cluster or array of three or more electrical WECS               which are under the
same ownership or management.

                                                           ARG
                                                      20696454
                                                                       Chapter 1 ~ Introductory Provisions
                                                                                        December 16, 2009
Page 1-38

Wind Measurement Device - An instrument for measuring wind speed and/or direction,
including the tower or pole upon which it is mounted.

Yard - An open space on a lot with a building and bounded on one (1) or more sides by
such building, such space being unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.

Yard, Front - A yard between the front line of the main building (exclusive of steps), and
the front property line. Front property line is that side of a lot or parcel where access is
obtained from a street or road.

Yard, Rear - An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, between
the rear line of the main building (exclusive of steps, porches, and accessory buildings),
and the rear line of the lot.

Yard, Side - An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, between
the side wall line of the main building and the side line of the lot.

Youth/Family Camp - An area devoted to facilities and equipment for camp purposes for
youths and adults, including swimming pools, tennis courts, recreational fields and facilities
for meetings, conferences or retreats, including facilities for eating and           sleeping
accommodations that are provided in connection with the camp (added 9/18/97).

Yurt - A round, domed shelter of cloth or canvas on a collapsible frame.
                                                           Hoe
                                                           i)
                                                           o>
                                                      a>

                                                           or
                                                 w
                                                 ©

                                                                  i

Chapter 1 - Introductory Provisions
December 16, 2009
                    DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
           CHAPTER 2 DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES

SECTION   TITLE
2.010     PURPOSE
2.020     REVIEW PROCESS
2.030     COORDINATION OF DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL
2.040     WHO MAY APPLY
2.050     PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE
2.060     APPLICATION
2.070     FILING FEES
2.080     NOTICE
2.090     CONTENTS OF NOTICE
2.100     ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION PROCEDURE OF
          THE DIRECTOR
2.110     THE DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR                             2-8
2.120     NOTICE OF A DECISION BY THE DIRECTOR                     2-10
2.125     TIME LIMITS FOR PERMITS AND EXTENSIONS                   2-10
          OF TIME
2.130     ESTABLISHMENT OF PARTY STATUS                            2-11
2.140     HEARING PROCEDURE                                        2-12
2.150     OFFICIAL NOTICE                                          2-14
2.160     APPEAL FROM DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR                     2-14
2.170     REVIEW OF A DECISION OF THE PLANNING                     2-16
          COMMISSION
2.180     REVIEW BY THE COUNTY GOVERNING BODY                      2-17
2.190     GENERAL CONDUCT OF ALL HEARINGS;                         2-19
          LEGISLATIVE, ADMINISTRATIVE OR
          QUASI-JUDICIAL
2,200     ADDITIONAL HEARING NOTIFICATION                          2-19
          REQUREMENTS

                        20600454      Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                               December   16, 2009
                 CHAPTER 2 DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES

SECTION 2.010       Purpose
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish procedures for approval of development
required by this Ordinance, appeals from aggrieved persons and parties, and review of
any decision by a higher authority.

SECTION 2.020 Review Process
An application for development approval required by Wasco County shall be processed
by quasi-judicial public hearing or by Administrative Action, pursuant to applicable
sections of this Ordinance. Quasi-judicial hearings shall be held on all applications for a
permit or approval required by these regulations, provided that hearings shall not be held
in those matters the Director has authority to act upon, unless the Director, under Section
2.100(C), schedules a hearing before the Planning Commission or an appeal be taken.
(Revised 5-93)

SECTION 2.030       Coordination of Development Approval

A.   The Director or the Director's designee shall be responsible for the coordination of a
     development      application and   decision-making     procedures  and  shall approve
     developments when proper application is made and the proposed development is in
     compliance     with the provisions of this Ordinance          and the Wasco     County
     Comprehensive Plan.         Before approving any development the Director or the
     Director's designee shall be provided with information by the applicant sufficient to
     establish full compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance. (Revised 5-93)

B. The coordination of development application shall include the opportunity for the
   applicant to apply for all permits necessary for a development project at one time.
     The consolidated    procedure shall be subject to the time limitations set out in this
     chapter.   (added 2-89)

C. After an application has been submitted, no building permit for the proposed use shall
   be issued until final action has been taken. Following final action on the application,
   the issuance of a building permit shall be in conformance with the zoning regulations
     of this Ordinance, and any conditions of development approval.

SECTION 2.040 Who May Apply

A.   Development request may be initiated by one or more of the following:

                                             AaAF.   4   Ty
                                        2 ) U J U4            = chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                         December 16, 2009
Page 2-2

    1.     The owner of the property which is the subject of the application; or

    2.     The purchaser of such property who submits a duly executed written contract, or
           copy thereof, which has been recorded with the Wasco County Clerk; or

    3.     The   purchaser      of such    property who     submits       a duly executed                      earnest   money
           agreement stating the land use action proposed; or (Added 1-92)

    4.     A lessee in possession of such property who submits written consent of the owner
           to make such application; or

    5.     Resolution of the County Governing Body Geurtor Commission; or

    6.     County Road Department, (when dealing with land involving public works projects).

           Any of the above may be represented by an agent                                          who        submits   written
           authorization by his principal to make such application.

SECTION 2.050 Pre-Application Conference
An applicant shall request a pre-application confererice prior to submitting a request for a
subdivision, planned unit development, conditional use, farm dwelling or site plan review
for a home occupation. The purpose of the conference shall be to acquaint the applicant
with the substantive and procedural requirements of the Ordinance, provide for an
exchange of information regarding applicable elements of the Comprehensive Plan and
development requirements, arrange such technical and design assistance as will aid the
applicant, and to identify policies and regulations that create opportunities or pose
significant constraints for the proposed development.                 (Revised 5-93)

SECTION 2.060 Application
Application for development approval shall be made                    pursuant to applicable sections of
this Ordinance on forms provided by the Planning Director.

An application shall be considered complete when it contains the information required by
these regulations, and addresses the appropriate criteria for review and approval of the
request and is accompanied by the required fee, unless waived by the County Goveming
Body, pursuant to Section 2.070.

A. The       Director   shall    have     the   authority   to   review      the          following            applications   for
    Administrative Action, and shall follow the procedure provided by this Ordinance to
    accomplish such review. Matters required by this Ordinance that are not subject to
    other provisions of this Ordinance include, but are not limited to:
                                                                                                     x8
                                                                                                   res

                                                                                                          {=
                                                                                        en)
                                                                                              a>
                                                                                 ome)

Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures                             2,
                                                                            cS

December 16, 2009
                                                                                               Page 2-3

      . Conditional Use Review (Chapter 5)

        Administrative Variances (Chapter 7)

        Temporary Use Permits (Chapter 8)

        Partition, Replat and Lot Line Adjustment    Approval,        except   as   provided   for in
        section 2.060 B.10 (Chapter 21)

        Site Plan Reviews   (Chapters 3 and 20)

        Uses Permitted Subject to Standards (Chapter 3)

      . Similar use.

 8.     Significance Determination for Aggregate Overlay (Chapter 3, Section 3.815)

 9.     Nonconforming Use Verification, Restoration, or Alteration (Chapter 13)

. The following matters shall be heard by the Planning Commission,                     pursuant     to
  Sections 2.080, 2.090, 2.130, 2.140, 2.150, and 2.190 of this Ordinance:

 1.     Recommendation to County Goveming Body          on a Legislative or Quasi-Judicial
        Plan Amendment (Comprehensive Plan)

        Recommendation to the County Goveming          Body      on    a Zone       Change     and/or
        Ordinance Amendment (Chapter 9)

        Subdivision (Chapter 21)

        Planned Unit Development (Chapter 18)

        Mobile Home Parks (Chapter 16)

        Recreational Vehicle Parks (Chapter 17)

        Division of Non-Resource Land in Designated Resource Areas (Chapter 10)

        Variance (Chapter 6)

        Private Road Approval (Chapter 21}

 10. Preliminary Partitions involving private or public road approval.

                                                            20096454
                                                          Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                   December 16, 2009
Page 2-4

     11.Recommendation           to the County     Governing   Body     on        public      road   dedications
           (Chapter 21).

     12. Revocation of Conditional Use Permits (Chapter 5)

     13.Appeals of Decision of Director made pursuant to Section 2.060 (A) (1), (2), (3),
        (4) & (5), and any ministerial action of the Director.

     14.Matters which the Director elects not to review, pursuant to Section 2.060 (A)(1),
           (2), (3), (4), (), (6), (7), and (8).
     15.Recommendation           for implementation    of Aggregate       Overlay            zone    (Chapter   3,
        Section 3.800)

     16. Variances to floodplain standards (Chapter 22).

SECTION 2.070          Filing Fees

A. Any application filed with the Planning Department shall be accompanied by the
   appropnate filing fee to reimburse the County for processing costs attendant upon the
   application.

B.   Fees shall not exceed the actual or average cost of providing the service.

C. Any and all fees shall be established by County Governing Body Order, be separate
     from this Ordinance, and may be revised whenever necessary.

D. A filing fee may be waived by the County Governing Body for Governmental agencies
    or nonprofit groups, or upon satisfactory showing that an applicant is without means
     and is unable to pay the established fee.           Said waiver shall be approved                    by the
     County Governing Body prior to submitting an application or appeal to the Planning
     Office. FAX copies of a purchase order or check for payment of an application or
     appeal are not acceptable. True payment must be paid prior to the expiration of an
     appeal period, or prior to acceptance of an application.

E. All fees received pursuant to this Section shall be deposited in the County General
     Fund.

F.   Fees are not transferable or refundable.
                                                                                            Crt
                                                                                       io

                                                                                            {=<
                                                                      Lote)

                                                                                  a>
                                                                      [aae)

                                                                              >
                                                                we

Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                   Page 2-5

SECTION 2.080          Notice

Citizen and Agency Involvement. The County shall provide opportunities for public and
agency input in the planning process. To ensure that there is a coordinated effort to
permit land use projects, notice of applications for development approval shall be sent
to interested agencies and departments such as County departments, sheriff and fire
departments, school districts, utility companies, and the applicable city departments for
those municipalities within Wasco County. Affected jurisdictions and agencies could
include the Department of Environmental Quality, the Oregon Department of
Transportation, Wasco County Transportation Network, and other applicable local, state
or federal agencies.

If the subject property is being considered for a comprehensive plan or zone change,
notice of receipt of the application shall be provided to the Oregon Department of
Transportation.

A. At least twenty (20) days prior to the date of a quasi-judicial              public hearing     under
   Section 2.060 (B), notice shall be sent to: (Revised 1-92)

     1.    The applicant and all owners or contract       purchasers     of record     of the property
           which is the subject of the application;

     2.    All owners of property within one hundred feet (100’) if located wholly or in part
           within an urban growth boundary, three hundred feet (300') if located outside an
           Urban Growth Boundary and not within a farm, farm/forest or forest zone, and five
           hundred (500) feet within a farm, farm/forest or forest zone. (Revised 1-92)

     3.    The appropriate Citizen Advisory Group;

     4.    Any affected governmental agency or public district within whose boundary the
           subject property lies;

     5.    The city within whose recognized Urban Growth Boundary the subject property lies
           or whose facilities may be impacted;

     6.    Other   persons   as may   be clearly and   necessarily affected      by the result of the
           development request.

B. Notice of Administrative Action for the use listed in Sections 2.060(A) (1) and (9), shail
   be given as prescribed by subsection (A) (1) — (6) of this Section, with the exception
     that notice be given at least ten (10) days prior to a decision. (Revised 1-92, 5-93, 9-
     99)

C.   Notice shall be given by publication in the official newspaper of Wasco County at least

                                                ALTA      Amy
                                                          t

                                            2   VuUd    4 J.    Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                         December 16, 2009
Page 2-6

     fifteen (15) days prior to the date of a quasi-judicial public hearing, pursuant to Section
     2.060 (B). An affidavit of publication shall be made part of the record. (Revised 1-92)

D.   Notice of Review by the County Governing Body pursuant to Section 2.180 shall be
     sent to all parties, posted in at least two (2) different public locations and published in
     the official newspaper of Wasco County ten (10) days prior to the date set for the
     hearing.    (Revised 1-92)

E. An affidavit of all mailing notices shall be made part of the record.

F.   Notice shall be sent to owners of a public use airport of any land use action within
     5,000 feet of the side or end of a “visual airport" runway, or within 10,000 feet of an
     “instrument airport” runway, unless the action involves structures less than thirty-five
     (35) feet tall outside the runway approach surface.      (added 2-89)

SECTION 2.090         Contents of Notice

A.   Notice of a quasi-judicial hearing on any development request shall be filed with the
     Director and also given pursuant to Section 2.080 and shall include the following
     information:

     1.    The date, time and place of hearing and the name of the hearing body;

     2. The general location of the subject property and legal description;

     3.    The legal owner of record of the property and the name of applicant seeking the
           review;

     4.    The present zoning of the subject property         and    applicable        Ordinances    and
           sections that apply to the application at issue;

     5.    The request and purpose of the proposal;

     6.    That failure of an issue to be raised in a hearing, in person or by letter, or failure
           to provide statements or evidence sufficient to afford the decision maker an
           opportunity to respond to the issue precludes appeal to the board based on that
           issue;

     7.    The name of a local government representative to contact and                    the telephone
           number where additional information may be obtained;

     8.    That a copy of the application, all documents and evidence submitted by or on
           behalf of the applicant and applicable criteria are available for inspection at no

                                                                                       4
                                                                    ye   ar
                                                                                  Qi

Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                2 g Ody       4
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 2-7

        cost and will be provided at reasonable cost;

   9.   That a copy of the staff report will be available for inspection at no cost at least
        seven days prior to the hearing and will be provided at reasonable cost; and

   10.General     explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony and the
        procedure for conduct of hearings.

B. Notice of an Administrative Action on a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
   Director and    also given   pursuant to Section 2.080,      and    shall include the following
   information:   (Revised 1-92, 5-93)

   1. The location, title of the request and the date such notice was sent;

   2.   The general location of the subject property and legal description;

   3. The legal owner of record and the name of applicant seeking review;

   4.   The present    zoning   of the   subject   property   and     applicable   Ordinances       and
        sections;

   5.   The nature of the application;

   6.   The deadline established for rendering a final decision;

   7.   The deadline for filing comments on the request.

SECTION 2.100      Administrative Action Procedure of the Director

A. After accepting an application for Administrative Action pursuant to Section 2.060(A)
   (1) - (9) of this Ordinance, the Director shall act on or cause a hearing to be held on
   the application within the time requirements of O.R.S. 215.428(1). (Revised 2-89, 5-
   93)

   The Director shall not accept any application which he/she deems cannot be acted
   upon initially in a rational manner within the time requirements of O.R.S. 215.428(1),
   unless the applicant consents to a longer period for action. (Revised 5-93)

B. Within such time period, the Director shall (Revised 5-93):

   1.   Publish or otherwise file notice pursuant to Section 2.080;

   2.   Prepare findings of fact and conclusions of law;

                                    206064
                                                   Gt

                                                        sy    Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                       December 16, 2000
Page 2-8

           Prepare     a decision     to approve    or deny     the     request.        Approvals   may    include
           conditions considered necessary to assure conformance with the Comprehensive
           Plan pursuant to Section 2.110(D).

     4.    Provide opportunity for and conclusion to all local appeals.                 (Added 5-93)

C.   If the application does not meet the criteria or if written objections are received, or if
     the applicant or the Director so desires for any reason, the Director may schedule any
     application       made   under Section      2.060(A)     for public hearing           before the Planning
     Commission, pursuant to Section 2.060 (B) (14), and the Commission shall decide the
     matter, as if the matter were listed under Section 2.060 (B).                  (Revised 1-92)

SECTION 2.110           The Decision of the Director

A. A decision on an Administrative Action under Section 2.060(A) shall be rendered                              by
   the Director within the time limitations of this Ordinance.

B. In making a decision, the Director shall consider
                                                   the following:

     1. The burden of proof is placed upon the petitioner seeking an action pursuant to the
           provisions of this Chapter.         Unless otherwise         provided for in this Chapter,        such
           burden shall be to prove:

           a.   The proposed action fully complies with the applicable map elements of the
                relevant Comprehensive Plan and also the goals and policies of the applicable
                plan.

           b.   The proposed        action   is in accordance         with   the   applicable   criteria   of this
                Ordinance.

           Proof of change in a neighborhood or community or mistake in the planning or
           zoning for the property under consideration are additional relevant factors.

     3. Written comments from parties or other persons.

C.   Inall cases, the Director shall enter findings and conclusions to justify his decision.

D. The following limitations shall be applicable to conditional approvals:

     1. Conditions shall be fulfilled within the time limitations set forth in the approval
           thereof, or, if no specific time has been set forth, within a reasonable time.

                                                                              .     3     wy
Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures                             2 0 +f 9 G 4 rs] i
December    16, 2009
                                                                                            Page 2-9

   . Such conditions shall be reasonably conceived to fulfill public needs emanating
     from the proposed land use as set forth in the application in the following respects:

     a.   Protection of the public from the potentially deleterious effects of the proposed
          use; or

     b.   Fulfillment of the need   for public service demands     created    by the proposed
          use.

   . Changes or alterations of conditions shall be processed as a new Administrative
     Action.

   ._ The conditional approval may require the owner of the property to sign a contract
      with the County for enforcement of the conditions.      Such contract shall be
     executed within thirty (30) days after conditional approval        is granted,     provided,
     however, that the Director may grant time extensions due to practical difficulty.
     The Director shall have the authority to execute such contracts on behalf of the
     County. If a contract is required by a conditional approval, no building permit shall
     be issued for the use covered by the application until the executed contract is
     recorded on the real property records of Wasco County and filed in the County
     Journal.    Such contract shall not restrict the power of subsequent administrative
     action, with or without conditions. Such contracts shall be enforceable against the
     signing parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns by Wasco County by
     appropriate action in law or suit in equity for the benefit of public health, safety and
     welfare.

   . Failure to fulfill any conditions of approval within the time limitations imposed may
     be grounds for initiation of Administrative Action or revocation of approval by the
     Director.

   . A bond, in a form acceptable to the Director or, upon appeal or review, by the
     Commission or County Goveming Body or a cash deposit from the property
     owner(s) or contract purchaser(s) in such amount as will assure compliance with
     the conditions imposed pursuant to this section may be required. Such bond or
     deposit shall be posted at the same time the contract containing the conditions of
     approval is filed with the Wasco County Clerk.

. If an application is denied by the Director, and no higher authority reverses such
  denial upon appeal, no new application for the sarne or substantially similar action
  shall be filed   for at least twelve (12) months frorn the date of the final order of the
  action denying the application.

                                                ROCICAD#
                                                 Nf, 7, eee

                                                         Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                  December 16, 2009
Page 2-10

SECTION 2.120            Notice of a Decision by the Director

A.   Notice of a decision by the Director pursuant to Section 2.060 (A) (1) - (9) shall be filed
     in the records of the Director and also mailed to the applicant, the owner(s) or contract
     purchasers of the subject property, and all parties within the required notification
     areas, as described by Section 2.080. (Revised 1-92)

B.   Notice of a decision shall contain:

     1.     Identification of the application;

     2.     The findings of fact and conclusions of law of the Director;

     3.     Other information pertinent to the application, if any;

     4.     The date of the filing of the decision of the Director;

     5.     Notice that any party may appeal the decision within twelve (12) days from the
            date such notice was sent by filing a timely statement with the Director.

C. The decision of the Director pursuant to Section 2.060 (A)(1) - (9) shall be final unless
     an appeal from an aggrieved person is received by the Director within ten (10) days
     after the filing of a decision on an Administrative Action or uniess the Commission or
     County Goveming Body on its own motion, orders review within ten (10) days after the
     filing of the proposed decision.        (revised 2-89, 5-93, 9-99)

SECTION 2.125           Time Limits for Permits and Extensions of Time

A. Time Limits for Permits: A permit will become invalid without special action if:

     1.     Development has not commenced within two (2) years of the date of approval;

     2.     The use approved      is discontinued for any reason for one (1) continuous year or
            more.

B.   Extension of Time Request:     If an extension of time is required, the holder of the
     approved permit must file an application which will be processed as an administrative
     action.  A one time extension may be granted for a maximum of two (2) years.
     Extensions shall be granted only upon findings that:

     1.     Request     for an extension     of time   has   been   made   prior to expiration      of the
            approved permit.

                                                                          90096404
                                                                             .   n   /   Lat   ag

Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
December     16, 2009
                                                                                            Page 2-11

   2.   There has been no change in circumstances or the law likely to necessitate
        significant modification of the development approval or conditions of approval.

   3.   The applicant has provided reasons that prevented the applicant from beginning
        or continuing development within the approvai period.

SECTION 2.130       Establishment of Party Status

A. In order to have standing under this Chapter, a person shall be recognized as a party
   by the Approving Authority.

   Party status, when recognized by the Approving Authority, establishes the right of the
   person to be heard, either orally or in writing and to pursue a review or appeal under
   this Chapter.

   A request for establishment of party status may be made at least ten (10) days before
   the date set for a quasi-judicial public hearing by any person who files a written
   statement regarding the application being considered.

   Seven (7) or more days prior to the date set for a public hearing, the Director shall
   mail the applicant any statements that have been filed and a copy of the staff report.

   With respect to applications under Section 2.060 (B) of this Chapter, the Approving
   Authority may authorize a person to have party status, at any time prior to the close of
   a hearing, if that person is not otherwise a party, as defined by Section 1.090 of this
   Ordinance.      (Revised 1-92)

   A request for establishment of party status for an Administrative decision pursuant to
   Section 2.060(A) of this Chapter shall be made by filing a written statement within a
   ten (10) day notification period. Such statement shall include:

   1.   The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the statement;

   2.   How the person qualifies as a party; as defined in Section 1.090 of this Ordinance;
        and

   3.   Comments which the party wishes to make with respect to the application under
        consideration.

   Any party may appeal a decision of the Director relative to an Administrative Action.
   In the conduct of a hearing, the Approving Authority shall establish the appellant as a
   party or the appeal shall not be heard and the contested decision shall become final.

                                                                narAawe
                                                              g9goC40L
                                                          Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                   December 16, 2009
Page 2-12

SECTION 2.140                 Hearing Procedure

A.   In the conduct of a public hearing, the Approving Authority shall have the authority,
     pursuant to Rules of Procedure approved by the County Governing Body, to:

     1.     Determine who qualifies as a party.

     2.     Regulate the course, sequence and decorum of the hearing.

            Dispose of procedural requirements or similar matters.

            Rule on offers of proof and relevancy of evidence and testimony.

            Impose reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses heard and set
            reasonable time limits for oral presentation, and rebuttal testimony. (Revised 1-92)

            Take such other action appropriate for conduct commensurate with the nature of
            the hearing.

            Grant,         deny,   or   in      appropriate        cases,     attach     conditions         pursuant      to    Section
            2.110(D) of this Chapter to the matter being heard.

B.   Order        of Procedure:               Unless         otherwise     specified,    the Approving             Authority,    in the
     conduct of a hearing, shall:

     1.     Announce           the nature and              purpose       of the hearing        and   summarize         the rules for
            conducting the hearing.

     2.     Recognize parties.

     3.     Ask      for     disclosure          of    any     potential     conflicts    of     interest     by     those      on   the
            decision-making body.                     (added 2-89)

     4. Ask parties to the hearing if there is a challenge to the ability of any member to
            make an unbiased decision on the case.                           (added 2-89)

     5.     Request the Director or his designee to present                              a summary of staff findings and
            recommendation,             if any, and explain any graphic or pictorial displays which are
            part of the staff report.

     6. Allow the applicant to be heard first, on his own behalf or by representative.

     7.     Allow parties or witnesses in favor of the applicant's proposal to be heard.

Chapterter 22,, pars diial Approval I
Chap                                              Proced
                                             Procedures                                    9 Q g gy G AAm
                                                                                                        5) 4
                                                                                                    Page 2-13

8.   Allow other parties or witnesses to be heard next in the same                    manner as in the
     case of the applicant.

9.   Upon failure of any party to appear, the Approving                     Authority    may      take   into
     consideration written material submitted by such party.

10.Allow only the proponent to offer rebuttal testimony.      The scope and extent of
   rebuttal shall be limited to issues raised during testimony and shall not be used to
   introduce new evidence. (Revised 1-92)

11. Close the hearing to public testimony. Questions may be asked at this time by the
    Approving Authority. Questions by the Director or his designee may be allowed by
    the Approving Authority upon request.

12.At the conclusion of the hearing, the Approving Authority shall either make a
    decision and state findings which may incorporate findings proposed by any party,
    or the Director, or may take the matter under advisement. The Approving Authority
    may request proposed findings and conclusions from any party to the hearing.

13.The Approving Authority, before finally adopting findings and conclusions, may
   circulate the same in proposed form to the parties for written comment. All actions
   taken by the Approving Authority pursuant to adopting findings and conclusions
   shall be made a part of the record. The decision and findings and conclusions
     which support the decision of the Approving Authority shall be final when signed by
     the Approving Authority.      For the purpose of signing the decision and findings and
     conclusions, the Approving Authority may be either the Chairman of the Planning
     Commission or the Director of Planning.         (Revised 1-92)

14. At the latest, the next regularly scheduled meeting shall be the time the Approving
    Authority shall grant, deny or, in appropriate cases, pursuant to Section 2.110(D),
    attach such conditions as may be necessary to carry out the Comprehensive Plan
    in approving the proposal being heard. The Director may extend the deadline for
    rendering a decision upon consent of the applicant.        The Director shall notify
    parties of the decision by mail. (Revised 5-93)

15. The Approving Authority shall render a decision, may affirm, reverse or modify the
    action of a lesser authority, and may reasonably grant approval subject to the
    conditions necessary to carry out the Comprehensive Plan pursuant to Section
    2.110(D) of this Ordinance.

     a.   For all cases    the Approving     Authority   shall    make    a decision      based     on the
          record before it as justification for its decision.

     b.   The   Director shall send    a notice of the Approving          Authority's decision to all

                                                           2009045"
                                                                 Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                          December 16, 2009
Page 2-14

               parties to the matter and a copy of such decision shall be filed in the records of
               the Director.

SECTION 2.150          Official Notice

A. The Approving Authority may take official notice of the following:

     1.     All facts which are judicially noticeable.   Judicially noticed facts shall be stated and
            made part of the record.

     2.     The Comprehensive Plan and other officially adopted plans, ordinances, rules and
            regulations of Wasco County and comprehensive                    plans   and    implementing
            regulations of cities within Wasco County.

B.   Matters officially noticed need not be established by evidence and may be considered
     by the Approving Authority in the determination of the application.

SECTION 2.160          Appeal from Decision of the Director

A. Any action taken by the Director or his designee in the interpretation, administration or
     enforcement of this ordinance shall be subject to review by the Planning Commission,
     pursuant to Section 2.060 (B13).          (Revised 1-92)

B. Any party may appeal a decision of the Director relative to an Administrative Action.
   In the conduct of a hearing, the Approving Authority shall establish the appellant as a
   party or the appeal shall not be heard and the contested decision shall become final.

C. The Approving Authority may review the action of the Director upon receipt of a Notice
   of Appeal as prescribed in Section 2.160. For the purpose of this section, an appeal
   shall be filed with the Director no later than twelve (12) days following the date of the
   decision or action of the Director. The decision of the Director may also be reviewed
   by the County Governing Body upon its own motion passed within twelve (12) days of
   the written decision sought to be reviewed if no appeal is filed. County Governing
   Body review shall be conducted pursuant to Section 2.180.

D.   Every Notice of Appeal shall contain:

     1. Areference to the application sought to be appealed.

     2.     A statement as to how the petitioner qualifies as a party.

     3.     The specific grounds relied upon in the petition request for review.

                                                                             00454
Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
December 16, 2009                                                    9   0
                                                                                      Cot
                                                                                              Page 2-15

  4. The date of the final decision of the action.

  5. The required fee, unless wavered pursuant to Section 2.070.

. At least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the Approving Authority meeting, the
  Director shall give notice to all parties to the case as provided by Section 2.080 of the
  time, date and place of the meeting. (Revised 1-92)

. Members of the Approving Authority shall neither:

  1.   Communicate, directly or indirectly, with any party or his              representatives in
       connection with any issue involved except upon notice and               opportunity for all
       parties to participate; nor

  2.   Take notice of any communication, reports, staff memoranda, or other materials
       prepared in connection with the particular case unless the parties are afforded an
       opportunity to contest the material so noticed.

. During the course of the review, the Director shail first present to the Approving
  Authority the decision   and   the   reasons   for such   action.   The    appellant then      may
  present its argument and may call witnesses to give additional relevant testimony.

. Appeal of an administrative decision to the Planning Commission shall be “de novo";
  i.e., conducted as a new hearing before the public. (Revised 5-93)

  The review shall be accomplished in accordance with the Rules of Procedure adopted
  by the County Goveming Body. The Approving Authority may continue its hearing
  from time to time to gather additional evidence or to consider the application fully.
  Unless otherwise provided by the Approving Authority no additional notice need be
  given of continued hearings if the matter be continued to a certain date.

. All evidence offered and not objected to may be received unless excluded by the
  Approving Authority on its own motion. Evidence received at any hearing shall be of
  the quality that reasonable persons rely upon in the conducting of their everyday
  affairs.   Evidence shall be received and notice may be taken of those facts in a
  manner similar to that provided for in contested cases before state administrative
  agencies pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 183.450 except as otherwise provided
  for herein.

. The Approving Authority shall render a decision, may affirm, reverse or modify the
  action of a lesser authority and may reasonably grant approval subject to conditions
  necessary to carry out the Comprehensive Plan pursuant to Section 2.110(D).

                                                       gogocde+
                                                          RAS
                                                            Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                     December 16, 2009
Page 2-16

     1.     For all cases the Approving Authority shall make a decision based on findings and
            conclusions from the record before it as justification for its action.

     2.     The Director shall send a copy of the Approving Authority's decision to all parties to
            the matter and a copy of such decision shall be filed in the records of the Director.

SECTION 2.170 Review of a Decision of the Planning Commission
Twelve (12)-days from the date of a final decision of the Planning Commission,                         the
decision       shall   become   effective    unless   review   is sought   pursuant   to   this   Section.
(Revised 1-92)

A.   Review of the decision of the Planning Commission:             (Revised 1-92)

     1.     Shall be made by the County Governing Body Court, pursuant to Section 2.180,
            upon any party filing a Notice of Review with the Director within twelve (12) days
            from the date of the final decision sought to be reviewed; or (Revised 1-92)

     2.     May be made by the County Goverming Body, pursuant to Section 2.180, on its
            own motion passed within twelve (12) days from the date of the final decision
            sought to be reviewed. (Revised 1-92)

B.   Notice of the time and place of the review together with any Notice of Review filed
     shall be mailed to parties at least ten (10) days prior to the date of review.

C. Every Notice of Review shall contain:

     1.     A reference to the decision sought to be reviewed;

     2.     A statement as to how the petitioner qualifies as a party;

          . The specific grounds relied upon in the petition request for review; and
     ao

     4.     The date of the decision sought to be reviewed.

D. A Notice of Review shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth on the fee schedule
   established by the County Governing Body.

     1.     If the Court does not desire a transcript, the applicant or any party may request a
            transcript. Any such transcript request shall be paid for by the person requesting it.
             The estimated cost of the transcript shall be specified by the Director. Within five
            (5) days of such estimate, the person filing the Notice of Review shall deposit the
            estimated cost with the Director. Any deposit excess shall be returned to the
            depositing person. Failure to comply with this subsection shall be a jurisdictional

Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
December 16, 2009                                                             2 Or
                                                                                UU 9 Ure 4 . isoF
                                                                                                a]
                                                                                                 Page 2-17

        defect.

   2.   If atranscript is desired by the Court, the costs shall be borne by Wasco County.

SECTION 2.180       Review by the County Governing Body

A. Except as provided in Sections B. and C. below, appeal to the Governing Body of all
   final decisions of the Planning Commission shall be confined to the record. The
   record shail include:

   1.   All materials received as evidence at any previous stage;

   2.   Verbatim Record:

        a.   For quasi-judicial plan amendments, unless waived by the Court, a verbatim
             record of the hearing below, in the form of audio tapes, together with a
             transcription thereof, or the minutes thereof if no verbatim record is available
             due to mechanical failure or inadvertent error.

        b.   In appeals of all other development     actions, unless waived        by the Court, a
             verbatim   record   of the hearing   below   in the form    of audio tapes or the
             minutes thereof if no verbatim record is available due to mechanical failure or
             inadvertent error.    However, a party may prepare all or a portion of the
             transcript for submission to the Court.

   3.   The findings and conclusions supporting the action being appealed; and

   4.   Oral and written argument from the parties as defined by Section 2.130, or their
        representatives presented during the hearing or appeal but not including new
        evidence.

B. A party, or the Director, may request that the Court conduct a de novo or partial de
   novo hearing on appeal. The party filing the petition for review must make such a
   request as part of the petition. Any other party must make such a request no more
   than seven (7) calendar days after the deadline for filing a petition for review has
   expired. When practicable, the requesting party shall advise the other parties and
   attempt to gain their consent. The request shall:

   1.   Reference the name, case number and date of the decision;

   2.   Contain the name and address of the requesting party;

                                                             Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                      December    16, 2009
Page 2-18

    3.      Indicate the reasons for the request without addressing                     the merits of the land
            use action; and

    4.      Indicate any persons known to be opposed to the request.

  . The request for a de novo hearing for appeal                    of a quasi-judicial plan amendment
    shall be decided by the Court as a nonpublic                    hearing item, except that the Court
    may make such provision for notice to the parties and may take such testimony as it
    deems necessary to fully and fairly address significant procedural or substantive
    issues raised.         The Court shall grant the request only upon findings that:

    1.      Ade novo hearing is necessary to fully and properly evaluate a significant issue
            relevant to the proposed development action;

    2. The substantial rights of the parties will not be significantly prejudiced; and

    3.      The request is not necessitated by improper or unreasonable conduct of the
            requesting party or by a failure to present evidence that was available at the time
            of the previous review.

  . In conjunction with determining whether to conduct a de novo hearing for the appeal
    of a quasi-judicial           plan   amendment,     the     Court   may     remand         the     matter to the
    Planning Commission. The decision on whether to remand shall not be appealable.
    Upon remand, the appealing party shall be entitled to return of the appeal fee less
    actual costs incurred by the County.               Appeal from a decision on remand shall be
    taken as any other appeal.

  . Review by the County Governing Body upon appeal by a party shall be limited to the
    grounds relied upon in the petition request for review.

  . The       County      Goveming       Body   may   affirm,    reverse      or modify        the     action    of the
    Planning Commission and may approve or deny the request, or grant approval
    subject to conditions necessary to carry out the Comprehensive Plan as provided by
    Section 2.110(D).

    1.      For all cases the Approving Authority shall make                  a decision       based        on findings
            and conclusions from the record before it, as justification for its action.

    2.      The Director shall send a notice of the Approving Authority's decision to all
            parties to the matter and a copy of such decisions shall be filed in the records of
            the Director.

  . Only those members of the County Governing Body reviewing the entire record may
    act      on    the   matter   reviewed.     The   agreement         of at   least    two     (2)    members       is

                                                                                           mA:
Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures                                      2 0 G 9 vu 4 e          f
December     16, 2009
                                                                                                                 Page 2-19

      necessary to amend,         reverse, or remand the action of the Planning Commission.
      Upon failure of at least two (2)              members       to     agree,     the    decision     of the      prior
      Approving Authority shall stand.

SECTION       2.190       General Conduct of All Hearings;                  Legislative, Administrative or
                          Quasi-Judicial

The following rules apply to the general conduct of the hearing:

A.    No person    shail be disorderly,      abusive,       or disruptive of the orderly conduct of the
      hearing.

B.    No person shall testify without first receiving recognition from the Approving Authority
      and stating full name and address.

C. No person shall present irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious testimony or
   evidence. Formal rules of evidence as used in courts of law shall not apply. Evidence
   received at any hearing shall be of the quality that reasonable persons rely upon in the
   conduct of their everyday affairs.

D. Audience demonstrations such as applause, cheering, and display of signs, or other
     conduct disruptive of the hearing shall not be permitted.

E. The person in charge of the decision making body shall have the authority, at such
   person's discretion, to inform, reprimand, or remove any person or persons for
   violations of the above rules of conduct. Violations of the above rules of conduct shall
   further be grounds for the immediate suspension of the hearing.

SECTION 2.200 Additional Hearing Notification Requirements

A.   Notice

     1.   Notice   of a     legislative   hearing    will    be   sent     to     public    agencies      and      local
          jurisdictions (including those providing transportation facilities and services) that
          may be impacted by the proposed action. Affected agencies and jurisdictions
          could include the Department of Environmental Quality, the Oregon Department
          of Aviation, cities within Wasco County, and neighboring jurisdictions.

     2.   Notice of a iegislative or quasi-judicial hearing for any proposal that includes a
          new transportation facility or improvement, and where these facilities or
          improvements include or may impact a collector or arterial street, will be sent to
          the Oregon Department of Transportation and any special interest transportation

                                                                                     20000434
                                                                         Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                                      December 16, 2009
Page 2-20

            groups    as   appropriate.      Special   interest   transportation   groups   could      include
            trucking organizations, bicycle and pedestrian interest groups, and public transit
            providers.   Information that should be conveyed with the notice includes the
            following:

            a.   Project location

            b. Proposed land use action

            c.   Location of project access point(s)

Chapter 2, Development Approval Procedures                                     9 0 G 9 5 4
                                                                                             Qt
                                                                                                  [a

December 16, 2009
                       DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                   CHAPTER 4 SUPPLEMENTAL   PROVISIONS

SECTION   TITLE                                                     PAGE

4.010     AUTHORIZATION OF SIMILAR USES                             4-1
4.020     EXCEPTIONS                                                4-1
4.030     IMPACT REVIEW                                             4-1
4.040     EXEMPTIONS                                                4-1
4.050     MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE                                 4-2
4.060     GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO YARD REQUIREMENTS                   4-2
4.070     GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO BUILDING HEIGHT                     4-2
          REQUIREMENTS
4.080     PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS                                    4-2
4.090     VISION CLEARANCE                                          4-3
4.100     FENCES                                                    4-3
4.110     THROUGH    LOTS                                           4-3
4. 120    EXTERIOR FINISHING OF MOBILE HOMES                        4-4
4.130     DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS      FOR GUEST HOUSES               4-4
4.140     TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS                                   4-5

                                            20000454 #
                                              Chapter 4 — Supplemental Provisions
                                                               December   16, 2009
                                                                                                              Page 4-1

                          CHAPTER 4         SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 4.010 Authorization of Similar Uses
The Director may permit in a particular zone a use not listed in this Ordinance, provided
the use is of the same general type as the uses permitted there by this Ordinance. The
decision of the Director may be reviewed by the Planning Commission on its own motion
or appealed to the Commission pursuant to Section 2.060 (C10) of this Ordinance.
Notice of Administrative Action shall be given as prescribed by Section 2.080(A) of this
ordinance.      Notice of a final decision shall be given as prescribed in Section 2.120(A) and
(B).

SECTION 4.020 Exceptions
The Director of Planning shall be authorized to grant exceptions to the provisions of this
Ordinance to any government agency that requests in writing an exception to a specific
requirement or procedure; provided that the following circumstances exist:

A. The proposed use is consistent with the purpose and intent of the Comprehensive
   Plan and the Land Use and Development Ordinance; and,

B. The proposed use would serve an immediate public need; and,

C. There is inadequate time available for a review of the use through normal procedures,
       and delays would impair project implementation or pose hazards to property or public
       health, safety or welfare.

SECTION 4.030          Impact Review
To     ensure   that   adequate     information    is available   to determine      potential        conflicts       or
detrimental effects, the Director of Planning may require the submission of an impact
assessment, upon forms prescribed by the Director, before an exception shall be granted.

SECTION 4.040          Exemptions
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to apply to the construction, reconstruction, or
alteration by a government agency of road or highway systems, or to the use of materials
or sources within rights-of-way.         In addition, maintenance rehabilitation, repair and minor
betterment activities, not considered to have land use impacts, by               a governmental agency
on public property or facilities, shall also be exempt from the provisions of this Ordinance.
 Public works projects or land uses, authorized or approved by the County Governing
Body and determined by the Director to be consistent with the long-term objectives of the
Comprehensive Plan, shall be exempt from the current provisions of this Ordinance.

                                                    BORA
                                                       rd                  Chapterpter 4,4, Supplemental
                                                                                                Supl       | Provisions
                                                                                                                 Provisi
                                                  2060    454                                        December 16, 2009
Page 4-2

SECTION 4.050 Maintenance of Open Space
No lot area, yard, or other open space existing on or after the effective date of this
Ordinance shall be reduced below the minimum required for it by this Ordinance, and no
lot area, yard, off-street parking and loading area or other open space which is required
by this Ordinance for one use shall be used as the required lot area, yard or other open
space for another use. This section does not apply to area requirements reduced below
the minimum as a               result of the creation of cemetery lots.     Any required yard shall not
include any land dedicated, reserved or set aside for road, highway, street or other public
purposes except as provided in this Ordinance.

SECTION 4.060 General Exceptions to Yard Requirements
The following exception to yard requirements is authorized for a lot in any zone:

if there are buildings on both abutting lots which are within one hundred (100) feet of the
intervening lot, and the buildings have front yards of less than the required depth for the
zone, the depth of the front yard for the intervening lot need not exceed the average
depth of the front yards of the abutting yards.

SECTION 4.070 General Exceptions to Building Height Requirements
Necessary roof structures housing elevators, stairways, tanks, fans and ventilators and
towers, steeples, flagpoles, smokestacks, silos, grain elevators, energy facilities and
commercial energy facilities, water tanks and skylights and fire or parapet walls may be
erected above the height limits of the zone in which they are located provided no usable
floor space is provided in such structures above the required height limits.                     Transmission
towers over 200 feet in height require a Conditional Use Penmit.

SECTION 4.080            Projections Into Yards
Every part of a required yard shall be open from the ground to the sky unobstructed
except for the following:

A. Accessory buildings where permitted.

B. Ordinary         building     projections such   as cornices,   eaves,   belt courses,        sills or similar
     architectural features may project into required side yards not more than eighteen (18)
     inches or into front and rear yards not more than twenty-four (24) inches.

C. Chimneys may project into any required yard not more than eighteen (18) inches.

D.   Uncovered balconies or fire escapes may project into any required yard not more than
     three (3) feet.

Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
December 16, 2009                                                       2069645              4
                                                                                  c >

                                                                                        &T
                                                                                                       Page 4-3

E.     Uncovered terraces, decks or platforms may project or extend into a required setback
     not more than five (5) feet. Such terraces, decks or platforms including guardrails or
     fencing shall not extend thirty (30) inches above grade or ground level.

SECTION 4.090 Vision Clearance
A vision clearance area shall be maintained on                the    comers     of all property        at the
intersection of two streets or a street and a railroad.

A. A        vision clearance area shall consist of a triangular area, two sides of which are lot
     lines measured from the comer intersection of the street lot lines for a distance
     specified in the appropriate zone, or, where the lot lines have rounded comers, the lot
     lines extended in a straight line to a point of intersection and so measured, and the
     third side of which is a line across the comer of the lot joining the non-intersecting
     ends of the other two sides.

B. A vision clearance area shall contain no planting, fence, wall, structure, or temporary
     or permanent obstruction exceeding two and one-half (2 1/2) feet in height, measured
     from the top of the curb or, where no curb exists, from the established street center
       line grade,    except that trees exceeding      this height    may     be located      in this area
       removed to a height of eight (8) feet above the grade.

C. The following measurements shail establish vision areas:

       1.    In an agricultural or residential zone, the minimum distance shall be thirty (30) feet,
             or, at intersections including an alley, ten (10) feet.

     2.      In all other zones where yards are required, the minimum distance shall be fifteen
             (15) feet or, at intersections including alley, ten (10) feet, except that when               the
             angle of intersection between streets, other than an alley, is less than thirty (30)
             degrees, the distance shall be twenty-five (25) feet.

SECTION 4.100           Fences
No fence shall exceed six (6) feet in height or two and one-half (2 1/2) feet in a vision
clearance area. Game fences designed to protect agricultural crops from game animals
shall be included in the definition of fence (protective), however, they are exempt from the
height limit.

SECTION 4.110           Through Lots

A.   On through lots one hundred fifty (150) feet or less in depth, the height of a building
     may be that permitted on either street on which the lot faces.

                                                                            Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                            December   16, 2009
Page 4-4

B. On through lots more than one hundred fifty (150) feet in depth, the height regulations
     for the greater height shall not extend more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from that
     street.

C. Through lots having a frontage on two streets shall provide the required front yard on
   each street.

SECTION 4.120          Exterior Finishing of Mobile Homes

A. All mobile homes located on any lot or parcel in Wasco County shall be skirted with
   fire-proof, non-decaying and non-corroding materials or shall be provided with a
   cement or concrete block exterior foundation. If metal skirting is employed, it shall be
     painted and formed in a pattern complementary to the siding of the mobile home.

B. All awnings carports, ramadas, cabanas, and garages shall be painted and designed
     in a style complementary to the design of the mobile home.

C. Wheels shall be removed from all mobile homes at the time of installation on property.
     In addition, tongues, and hitches shall be removed from all mobile homes wider than
     ten (10) feet that are installed on any parcel of land, exclusive of licensed mobile
     home parks. The Director of Planning may exempt certain mobile homes from the last
     requirement when removal would damage the frame and weaken the structure.

SECTION 4.130 Development Standards for Guest Houses (Added 1-92)
A guest house may be allowed as listed in specific zones (“F-F’, “R-R’, “R-R(10)”, “A-R’,
“R-1”, “R-2”, “R-3”, “R-4”, and “R-C”) on a legally created jot or parcel on which a primary
dwelling is situated, subject to the setback requirements of the underlying district, and the
provisions of this section;

A.   Only one (1) guest house shall be allowed on a lot-of-record.

B. The maximum           floor area of a guest house, including all levels and basement floor
     areas shall not exceed          six-hundred (600) square feet.    Garage area shall not count
     toward the total floor area.

C. A guest house shall be located within one-hundred (100) feet of the primary dwelling
   on the subject lot-of-record. This distance shall be measured from the closest portion
     of each structure.

D. Occupants of a guest house and the primary dwelling shall live together as one house
   keeping unit, sharing one kitchen and one laundry facility, to be located in the primary

Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions                                2
                                                                       Fate]
                                                                      c>

                                                                               cD
                                                                                    pu
                                                                                         wi
                                                                               >

December 16, 2009
                                                                                          [<
                                                                                                              Page 4-5

     dwelling. A guest house shall be permitted one (1) bathroom, but not a refrigerator or
     freezer, range/stove/oven, or other cooking appliances.

E. All public water, electricity, natural gas and sewer services for the guest house shall
   be extended from the primary dwelling service. No separate meters for the guest
     house shall    be   allowed.      A separate       telephone       line for the guest          house    may   be
     provided.

F.   A guest house shall use the same septic system as the primary dwelling.                                Approval
     from the County Sanitarian shall be required.

SECTION 4.140        Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA)

A.   Purpose - The purpose of this section of the code is to implement Section 660-
     012-0045 (2) (e) of the State Transportation Planning Rule that requires the County
     to adopt    a process     to apply conditions            to development           proposals      in order to
     minimize    adverse     impacts    to   and   protect         transportation     facilities.   This    section
     establishes the standards for when a proposal must be reviewed for potential traffic
     impacts; when a Traffic Impact Analysis must be submitted with a development
     application in order to determine whether conditions are needed to minimize
     impacts to and protect transportation facilities; what must be in a Traffic Impact
     Analysis; and who is qualified to prepare the Study.

B.   Typical Average Daily Trips - The latest edition of the Trip Generation Report,
     published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), or a source deemed
     acceptable to the City Engineer through the pre-application process (Section
     4.140(D)(.3)) shall be used to gauge the trip generation potential of future
     development.

C.   When Required - A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be required to be submitted to the
     County with a land use application when the following conditions apply:

     1.   The development application involves one or more of the following actions:

          a.   A change in zoning or a plan amendment designation; or

          b.   Any proposed development or land use action that ODOT states may result
               in operational or safety concems along a state highway; and

          c.   The development shall cause one or more of the following effects, which
               can be determined by field counts, site observation, traffic impact analysis
               or study, field measurements, crash history, Institute of Transportation
               Engineers Trip Generation manual; and information and studies provided

                                                                                    Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                                     December 16, 2009
                                        200964                ‘4
                                                   oo

                                                         q1
Page 4-6

                by the local reviewing jurisdiction and/or ODOT:

                (1) An increase in site traffic volume generation by 200 Average                    Daily Trips
                      (ADT) or more (or as required by the Wasco County Roadmaster); or

                (2) An       increase    in intersection    traffic volume    by 50 Average        Daily Trips
                      (ADT) or more (or as required by the Wasco County Roadmaster); or

                (3) An increase in use of adjacent roads by vehicles exceeding the 20,000
                      pound gross vehicle weights by 10 vehicles or more per day; or

                (4) The location of the access driveway does not meet minimum intersection
                    sight distance requirements, or is located where vehicles entering or
                    leaving the property are restricted, or such vehicles queue or hesitate on
                      the adjacent roadway, creating a safety hazard; or

                (5) The location of the access driveway does not meet the access spacing
                    standard of the roadway on which the driveway is located; or

                (6) A change        in internal traffic patterns that may cause              safety problems,
                      such     as back    up onto the      roadway   or traffic crashes      in the approach
                      area.

D. Traffic Impact Analysis Requirements

     1.    Preparation - A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be prepared by a professional
           engineer. The traffic analysis will be paid for by the applicant.

           Transportation Planning Rule Compliance                   - See Section 9.059 Transportation
           Planning Rule Compliance.

            Pre-application Conference - The applicant will meet with the County
           Roadmaster prior to submitting an application that requires a Traffic Impact
           Analysis. ODOT will be invited to participate in the pre-application conference if
           a proposal is expected to have impacts to a state transportation facility. The
           objective of this meeting is to prepare a scope of the TIA, including the required
           elements of the TIA and the level of analysis expected.

E. Approval Criteria

     1.    Criteria - When a Traffic Impact Analysis is required, approval                              of   the
           development proposal requires satisfaction of the following criteria:

           a.   The      Traffic   Impact    Analysis      was   prepared    by   a   registered   professional

Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions                                            &       AM
December 16, 2009                                                       20695          45 ‘¢
                                                                                                       Page 4-7

               engineer in the State or Oregon; and

          b.   If the      proposed   development   shall   cause   one   or more     of the    effects    in
               Section C(1)(c), above, or other traffic hazard or negative impact to a
               transportation facility, the Traffic Impact Analysis includes mitigation
               measures that meet County's volume-to-capacity ratio of 0.85 and
               satisfactory to the County Road Master, and ODOT when applicable; and

          c. The proposed site design and traffic and circulation design and facilities, for
             all transportation modes, including any mitigation measures, are designed
               to:

               (1) Have the least negative impact on all applicable transportation facilities;
                     and

               (2) Accommodate       and encourage non-motorized                vehicular      modes       of
                   transportation to the extent practicable; and

               (3) Make the most efficient use of land and public facilities as practicable;
                   and

               (4) Provide the most direct, safe and convenient routes practicable between
                   on-site destinations, and between on-site and off-site destinations; and

               (5) Otherwise comply with applicable          requirements     of the Wasco          County
                   Land Development Ordinance.

F.   Conditions of Approval.          The County may deny, approve, or approve the proposal
     with appropriate conditions.

     1.   Dedication of land for streets/roadways, transit facilities, sidewalks, bikeways,
          paths, or accessways shall be required where the existing transportation system
          will be impacted by or is inadequate to handle the additional burden caused by
          the proposed        use.

     2. Improvements such as paving, curbing, installation or contribution to traffic
        signals, construction of sidewalks,  bikeways,     accessways,    paths,   or
          streets/roadways that serve the proposed use where the existing transportation
          system may be burdened by the proposed use may be required.

                                                                            Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
                                         2 0 C 9 o 4 y ‘€                                   December 16, 2009
                       DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                    CHAPTER 5 CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW

SECTION   TITLE                                                    PAGE

5.010     PURPOSE                                                  5-1
5.020     AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY                           5-1
          CONDITIONAL USES, AND STANDARDS
          AND CRITERIA USED
5.030     CONDITIONS                                               5-2
5.040     REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT                     5-3
5.050     PRE-EXISTING USES CLASSIFIED AS                          5-3
          CONDITIONAL USES IN THIS ORDINANCE
5.060     CRITERIA FOR CERTAIN TRANSPORTATION                      5-4
          FACILITIES AND IMPROVEMENTS

                           2 Q r 9 n 4 9 ‘€    Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review
                                                              December 16, 2009
                                                                                                                Page 5-1

                         CHAPTER 5         CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW

SECTION 5.010       Purpose
A conditional use is an activity which is basically similar to the uses permitted in a
particular zone but which may not be entirely compatible with the permitted uses.
Therefore, a conditional use must be approved through the Administrative Action
procedure to ensure that the use is compatible with the permitted uses in a zone and
consistent with the general and specific purposes of this Ordinance and the Wasco
County Comprehensive Plan. Conditions of approval may be imposed to ensure that any
use may be made compatible with surrounding uses and that non-resource uses
permitted in resource areas do not interfere with accepted resource management
practices.

SECTION       5.020 Authorization to Grant_or             Deny     Conditional       Uses,    and Standards
                  and Criteria Used
Conditional uses listed in this Ordinance shall be permitted, enlarged or otherwise altered
or denied upon authorization by Administrative Action in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.   In judging whether or not a conditional use
proposal shall be approved or denied, the Administrative Authority shall weigh the
proposal's appropriateness and desirability or the public convenience or necessity to be
served against any adverse conditions that would result from authorizing the particular
development     at the   location   proposed,       and   to approve      such      use,   shall         find that the
following criteria are either met, can be met by observance of conditions, or are not
applicable.

A. The proposal is consistent with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive                                    Plan
   and implementing Ordinances of the County.

B. Taking     into accourit   location,   size,     design   and      operational     characteristics           of the
   proposed use, the proposal is compatible with the surrounding area and development
   of abutting properties by outright permitted uses.

C. The proposed use will not exceed or significantly burden public facilities and services
   available to the area, including, but not limited to: roads, fire and police protection,
   sewer and water facilities, telephone and electrical service, or solid waste disposal
   facilities.

D. The proposed use will not unduly impair traffic flow or safety in the area.

E. The effects of noise, dust and odor will be minimized during                                    all     phases     of
   development and operation for the protection of adjoining properties.

                                                  ARO         AR YG              Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review
                                            2 u         9) U 4 vt                                   December
                                                                                                           16, 2009
  Page 5-2

  F. The proposed use will not significantly reduce or impair sensitive wildlife habitat,
     riparian vegetation along streambanks and will not subject areas to excessive soil
        erosion.

    . The proposed         use will not adversely affect the air, water, or land resource quality of
      the area.

        The   location and design of the site and structures for the proposed                           use will not
        significantly detract from the visual character of the area.

        The proposal will preserve areas of historic value, natural or cultural significance,
        including archaeological sites, or assets of particular interest to the community.

    . The proposed         use will not significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest
        practices on surrounding          lands devoted      to or available for farm           and      forest use.
        (Revised 1-92)

        The   proposed      use   will not force    a significant    change    in accepted        farm     or forest
        practices     on   surrounding     lands   devoted   to or available       for farm       or forest     use.
        (Revised 1-92)

  SECTION 5.030 Conditions
  Such reasonable conditions as are necessary to ensure the compatibility of a conditional
  use to surrounding permitted uses as are necessary to fulfill the general and specific
  purposes of this Ordinance may be imposed in approving an application, pursuant to
  Section 2.110(D). Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:

  A. Limiting the manner in which the use is conducted including restricting the time an
        activity may take place and restraints to minimize such environmental effects as noise,
        vibration, air pollution, glare, and odor.

        Establishing a special yard or other open space or lot area or dimension.
moo p

        Limiting the height, size, or location of a building or other structure.

        Designating the size, number, location, and nature of vehicle access points.

        Increasing the amount of street dedication, roadway width or improvements within the
        street right-of-way.

        Limiting or otherwise         designating the number,        size, location,       height and     lighting of
        signs.

                                                                        gg             .
  Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review                                 2 0 G 9 5 4 HY é
  December 16, 2009                                                                    -
                                                                                                    Page 5-3

G. Limiting the location and intensity of outdoor lighting and requiring its shielding.

H.   Requiring   diking,   screening,     landscaping    or another   facility to protect adjacent        or
     nearby property and designating standards for its installation and maintenance.

I.   Designating the size, height, location and materials for a fence.

J.   Protecting and preserving existing trees, vegetation, water resources, wildlife habitat
     or other significant natural, historic, or cultural resources.

K. Other conditions to permit the development of the County in conformity with the intent
     and purpose of the conditional classification of uses.

SECTION 5.040        Revocation of Conditional Use Permit             (added 2-89)
Noncompliance with any condition placed on a conditional use permit shall be grounds for
revocation of the permit.       Revocation of a conditional use permit shall be considered                 a
land use action and reviewed by the Planning Commission.                  The following procedures
shall be completed at least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the revocation hearing:
(Revised 1-92)

A. A notice of violation pursuant to Section 15.090               shall be sent to the owner of the
   property on which the conditional use takes place.

B. Notice of public hearing pursuant to Section 2.080 shall be sent.

     The opportunity for review of the Planning Commission decision, pursuant to Section
     2.170 shall be available.

SECTION 5.050 Pre-existing Uses Classified as Conditional Uses in this Ordinance.
A use or structure existing prior to the affective date of this ordinance and classified in this
ordinance as a conditional use in subject to the following restrictions:

A. The use may continue as this ordinance defines and allows as though it had been
     granted conditional use approval.    Any change or alteration to structures or area
     related to the pre-existing use shall conform to the development standards of the
     current zoning designation.        (Revised 1-92)

B. If the use or structure is destroyed by fire, other casualty or natural disaster,
   restoration or replacement shall be permitted, provided restoration or replacement is
   commenced within one year from the occurrence of fire, casualty, or natural disaster.
   Restoration shall substantially conform to the use as it existed prior to the fire,
   casualty, or natural disaster. Beyond one year, a conditional use permit must be

                                                             me            Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review
                                              9G% O6 4oe                                  December 16, 2009
Page 5-4

     obtained,      as     required   by     Chapter   2 of this      ordinance,     prior to          restoration   or
     replacement.

SECTION 5.060 Criteria for Certain Transportation Facilities and Improvements.

A.   Construction,         reconstruction,     or   widening    of   highways,     roads,        bridges     or   other
     transportation facilities that are (1) not designated in the adopted Wasco County
     Transportation System Plan (“TSP”) or (2) not designed and constructed as part of an
     approved, active, development order are allowed in all zoning districts subject to the
     Conditional Use Review provisions of this ordinance and satisfaction of all of the
     following criteria:

     1.    The project and its design are consistent with the County's adopted TSP and
           consistent with the State Transportation Planning Rule, OAR 660-012 (‘the
           TPR’).

     2.    The project design is compatible with abutting land uses in regard to noise
           generation and public safety and is consistent with the applicable zoning and
           development standards and criteria for the abutting properties.

     3.    The project design minimizes environmental impacts to identified wetlands,
           wildlife habitat, air and water quality, cultural resources, and scenic qualities,
           and a site with fewer environmental impacts is not reasonably available.

     4.    The project preserves or improves the safety and function of the facility through
           access management, traffic calming, or other design features.

     5.    The project includes provisions for bicycle and pedestrian access and circulation
           consistent with the comprehensive plan, the requirements of this ordinance, and
           the TSP.

B.   State transportation system facility or improvement projects.                 The Oregon Department
     of Transportation (“ODOT”) shall provide a narrative statement with the application
     demonstrating compliance with all of the criteria and standards in this Section. Where
     applicable, an Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment may
     be used to address one or more of these criteria.

C.   Proposal inconsistent with TSP/TPR.                  If the County determines that the proposed use
     or activity or its design is inconsistent with the TSP or TPR, then the applicant shall
     apply for and obtain a plan and/or zoning amendment prior to or in conjunction with
     conditional     use     permit   approval.     The     applicant shall choose      one           of the following
     options:
                                                                                            ot
                                                                             lowe]

                                                                             ho
                                                                             i)
                                                                             o>
                                                                             o>

                                                                                                 jx
                                                                         a

Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 5-5

. If the County's determination of inconsistency is made prior to a final decision on
  the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall withdraw the conditional
  use application; or

. If the County's determination of inconsistency is made prior to a final decision on
  the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall withdraw the conditional
  permit application, apply for a plan/zone amendment, and re-apply for a
  conditional use permit if and when the amendment is approved; or

. If the County's determination of inconsistency is made prior to a final decision on
  the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall submit a plan/zoning
  amendment application for joint review and decision with the conditional use permit
  application, along with a written waiver of the ORS 215.429 120/150-day period
  within which to complete    all local reviews          and   appeals    once    the application      is
  deemed complete; or

. If the County's determination of inconsistency is part of a final decision on the
  conditional use permit application, the applicant shall submit              a new conditional use
  permit application, along with a plan/zoning amendment application for joint review
  and decision.
                                                     er
                                                    Hm
                                            Lo)
                                            jote)

                                                    co
                                       cS

                                                           =
                                  ~e

                                                                         Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review
                                                                                         December 16, 2009
                           DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
          CHAPTER 9 ZONE CHANGE AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

SECTION   TITLE                                                             PAGE

9.010     APPLICATION FOR ZONE CHANGE                                       9-1
9.020     CRITERIA FOR DECISION                                            9-1
9.030     TRANSPORATION         PLANNING RULE COMPLIANCE                   9-1

9.040     CONDITIONS RELATIVE TO THE APPROVAL                              9-3
          OF A ZONE CHANGE
9.050     AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE                               9-3
9.060     RECOMMENDATION ON ZONE CHANGE OR                                 9-3
          AMENDMENT TO THE LAND USE
          AND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
9.070     NOTICE OF PLANNING COMMISSION                                    9-4
          RECOMMEDATION
9.080     ACTION BY COUNTY GOVERNING          BODY                         9-4

                      APANARY,           Chapter 9, Zone Change and Ordinance Amendment
                  2   Ue   vOGd54                                     December    16, 2009
                                                                                                    Page 9-1

              CHAPTER 9      ZONE CHANGE AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

SECTION 9.010       Application for Zone Change
Application for a zone change may be initiated as follows:

A. By resolution of the County Governing Body referring to the Commission a proposal
   therefore;

B. By a majority vote of the Planning              Commission   confirmed     by the Wasco        County
   Governing Body;

C.   By application filed with the Director of Planning upon forms prescribed by the Director
     of Planning and signed by a property owner with the area of the proposed change,
     and containing such information as may be required by the to establish the criteria for
     the change (quasi-judicial only);

D. By request of the Director of Planning, limited to changes required to implement the
     Comprehensive Plan or to eliminate spot zoning.

SECTION 9.020       Criteria for Decision
The Approving Authority may grant a zone change only if the following circumstances are
found to exist:

A. The original zoning was the product of a mistake; or

B. it is established that:

     1.   The rezoning will conform with the Comprehensive Plan; and,

     2. The site is suitable to the proposed zone; and

     3.   There has been a conscious consideration of the public health, safety and welfare
          in applying the specific zoning regulations.

SECTION 9.030 Transportation Planning Rule Compliance

A.   Review of Applications for Effect on Transportation             Facilities   - A proposed zone
     change or land use regulation change, whether initiated by the County or by a
     private interest, shall be reviewed to determine whether it significantly affects a
     transportation facility, in accordance with Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-
     012-0060 (the Transportation Planning Rule — “TPR”).        “Significant” means the

                                                           Chapter 9, Zone Change and Ordinance Amendment

                              2060C               Moos                                    December 16, 2009
                                            pnw

                                                  ws
Page 9-2

    proposal would:

     1. Change the functional classification of an existing or planned                               transportation
        facility (exclusive of correction of map errors in an adopted plan);

     2. Change standards implementing a functional classification system; or

     3. As     measured       at    the   end    of    the    planning    period   identified   in    the     adopted
           transportation system plan:

              Allow land uses or levels of development that would result in types or levels
              of travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of an
              existing or planned transportation facility;

              Reduce    the        performance        of an    existing   or planned     transportation            facility
              below the minimum           acceptable performance standard                identified in the TSP;
              or

              Worsen the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility that
              is otherwise   projected   to perform     below  the  minimum     acceptable
              performance standard identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan.

    B. Amendments That Affect Transportation Facilities - Amendments to the land use
           regulations that significantly affect a transportation facility shall ensure that
           allowed land uses are consistent with the function, capacity, and level of service
           of the facility identified in the TSP.               This shall be accomplished            by one or a
           combination of the following:

           1. Adopting measures that demonstrate allowed land uses are consistent with
              the   planned    function,          capacity,       and     performance      standards           of      the
              transportation facility.

              Amending the TSP or comprehensive plan to provide transportation facilities,
              improvements or services adequate to support the proposed                                     land     uses
              consistent with the requirements of Section -0060 of the TPR.

              Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
              demand for vehicle travel and meet travel needs through other modes of
              transportation.

              Amending the TSP to modify the planned furiction, capacity or performance
              standards of the transportation facility.

Chapter 9, Zone Change and Ordinance Amendment
December 16, 2009                                                                       2060         C4 a.
                                                                                                       Page 9-3

        C. Traffic Impact Analysis - A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be submitted with a zone
           change application pursuant to Section 4.140 Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA))

  SECTION 9.040 Conditions Relative to the Approval of a Zone Change
  Reasonable conditions may be imposed, pursuant to Section 2.110(D) as are necessary
  to insure the compatibility of a zone change to surrounding uses and as are necessary to
  fulfill the general and specific purposes of this Ordinance. Such conditions may include,
  but are not limited to, the following:

  A.    Special yards and spaces;

        Fences and walls;
moo @

        Special parking and/or loading provisions;

        Street dedication and improvements or bonds in lieu of improvements;

        Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;

        Special provisions for signs;
 m

  G. Lighting, landscaping and maintenance of grounds;

  H. Control of noise, vibration, odors, or other similar nuisances.

  SECTION 9.050 Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance
  Amendments to this Ordinance may be initiated as follows:

  A. By resolution of the County Goverming Body referring a proposed amendment to the
        Planning Commission for its consideration, report and recommendations;

  B.    By a majority vote    of the    Planning   Commission     confirmed     by the Wasco         County
        Goverming Body;

  C.    By request of the Director of Planning           or the   District   Attorney   to    conform     the
        Ordinance to changes in the State Law;

  SECTION 9.060             Recommendation         on Zone Change or Amendment to the Land
                       Use and Development Ordinance
  After hearing, the Approving Authority shall recommend            that the proposed zone change
  or amendment to the Zoning Ordinance be granted or denied.                  The Director of Planning

                                                             Chapter 9, Zone Change and Ordinance Amendment
                                              nA    ma                                       December 16, 2009
                                              qe
Page 9-4

or his assistants shall reduce to writing the Commission's recommendations together with
a bref statement of the facts and reasons upon which such recommendation is based.

SECTION 9.070        Notice of Planning Commission Recommendation
Within ten (10) days of the final Planning Commission hearing, the Director of Planning or
his assistants shall give notice thereof to any persons who signed in and testified at the
hearing and to such other persons as may have requested the same in wniting.

SECTION 9.080 Action by County Governing Body
Upon receipt of the Commission report, the County Goveming Body shall take such
action as may appear appropriate to that body, or as it feels the public interest requires,
provided that in no event shall the County Goveming Body act until at feast twenty (20)
days after the Notice of Planning Commission Recommendation has been mailed.

                                                                              OA      Awe
Chapter 9, Zone Change and Ordinance Amendment                     2   0 +f   9   U   4   ed
December 16, 2009
                  DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
          CHAPTER 18    PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)

SECTION   TITLE                                                      PAGE

18.010    PURPOSE                                                    18-1
18.020    DEFINITIONS                                                18-1
18.030    APPLICATION OF PUD DISTRICT                                18-2
18.040    CRITERIA FOR ZONE CHANGE TO APPLY                          18-2
           PUD DISTRICT
18.050    PUD PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN                           18-3
          APPROVAL
18.060    DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PRELIMINARY                      18-5
          DEVELOPMENT PLAN
18.070    MINIMUM SITE SIZE                                          18-6
18.080    PERMITTED USES                                             18-6
18.090    RESIDENTIAL DENSITY                                        18-7
18.100    BUILDING SPACING                                           18-8
18.110    OPEN SPACE                                                 18-8
18.120    ENVIRONMENTAL DESIGN                                       18-10
18.130    TRAFFIC CIRCULATION                                        18-11
18.140    PERIMETER DESIGN                                           18-11
18.150    DEVELOPMENT PHASING                                        18-12
18.160    DURATION OF PUD PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT                    18-12
          PLAN APPROVAL
18.180    PUD FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL                        18-13
18.190    EXPIRATION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT                            18-15
          PLAN APPROVAL
18.200    AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED       PRELIMINARY AND               18-15
          FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS
18.210    GRANTING OF EXTENSIONS                                     18-16

                                              Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                  at                             December 16, 2009
                          9OG0CEL?
                                                                                                                   Page 18-1

                      CHAPTER 18               PLANNED       UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)

SECTION 18.010              Purpose
The    purposes       of the    Planned        Unit Development          District are to provide          a means         of
creating harmonious planned environments through the application of flexible and
diversified land development standards; to encourage the application of new
development techniques and technology which will result in superior living or
development          arrangements;        to promote         the    efficient   use    of land     to facilitate     more
economic provision of housing, circulation systems, utilities and their maintenance; to
promote energy conservation and use of renewable energy resources; to preserve to
the greatest extent possible significant landscape features and to utilize such features
in a harmonious fashion; and to provide for more usable and suitably located open
space and recreation facilities than would otherwise be provided under conventional
land development procedures.

SECTION 18.020 Definitions
The following definitions apply only to this chapter:

Gross Acreage: The acreage of the entire PUD, less the acreage devoted to streets,
public or semi-public buildings, kindergarten or day-care centers, and commercial uses.

Homeowners’ Association: A nonprofit corporation, membership in which is mandatory
for owners of PUD residences, and which is responsible for maintaining common open
space and private streets.

Landscape Features: Natural features of the PUD site, including waterways, wetlands,
rock outcroppings, forest areas and significant wildlife habitat areas.

Net Acreage:         The acreage of the PUD devoted to residential use, including residential
building sites, private open space and driveways.

Open Space: Land not covered by buildings or structures, except minor recreational
structures. Open Space does not include streets, driveways, parking lots, or loading
areas. Landscaped roof areas devoted to recreational or leisure-time activities, freely
accessible to residents, may be counted as open space at a value of fifty percent (50%)
of actual roof area devoted to these uses.

A. Common            Open      Space:          open     space      reserved     primarily     for the      leisure     and
      recreational    use of all PUD            residents,      and owned       and    maintained      in common         by
      them through a homeowner's association.

B. Private Open          Space:         open    space     located immediately adjacent to an individual

                                                                                      Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                                                         December 16, 2009
                                                 20090451
Page 18-2

      dwelling             unit,    owned           and     maintained        by    the    owners     of the        dwelling    unit,   and
      reserved exclusively for the use of the residents of the dwelling unit.

C. Public Open Space: open space designed primarily for use by residents of a PUD,
   dedicated in fee to a public agency, and maintained by the agency.

SECTION               18.030        Application of PUD District

A. The Planned Unit Development (PUD) District is an overlay which may be applied to
   the following zoning classifications: FF, RR, AR, RC, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, RMH.

B. In the case of a conflict between a provision of the underlying district and that of the
      Planned Unit Development District, the provision of the PUD District shall apply.

C. The PUD District may be applied through the Development Approval Process
   subject to the provisions of Section 2.060(B) this Ordinance; provided that, if
      initiated by the owner or contract purchaser of the subject property, or their
      authorized representatives, application for a zone change to apply the PUD District
      must           be    in conjunction                with   application        for PUD     preliminary          development         plan
      approval.

D. If the PUD District was applied as the result of the Development Approval Process
   initiated by the owner or contract purchaser of the subject property, or by their
      authorized representatives, in conjunction with an application for PUD preliminary
      development plan approval, and subsequently the approved preliminary or final
      development                  plan           becomes       void   as    provided       in Section        18.160(B)        or Section
      18.190(B)              of this chapter;               the PUD         District will stand       until further Administrative
      Action is taken.

E. All development                          in the        PUD     District     requires      approval        of a    PUD       preliminary
      development plan and final development plan as provided in this chapter.

SECTION 18.040 Criteria for Zone Change to Apply PUD District
The Approving Authority shall decide an application to apply the PUD District, initiated
pursuant to Section 2.060(B) of this Ordinance, and shall approve the zone change if it
finds:

A. The criteria of Section 9.020 of Chapter 9 of this Ordinance have been met; and,

B. Two or more of the following:

      1.    The           subject     property            contains     significant        landscape     features       or open      space

December 16,2009                                                                          20090451
Chapter    18, PI:         d Unit         Dev l      t                                                   :
                                                                                          Page 18-3

        whose preservation requires planned unit development rather than conventional
        lot-by-lot development;

   2.   Pianned unit development of the subject property will promote increased energy
        conservation or use of renewable energy resources;

   3.   The subject property contains natural hazards, the avoidance of which requires
        planned development of the property;

   4.   Planned unit development of the subject property will produce more efficient use
        of the land and provision of services than conventional lot-by-lot development.

SECTION 18.050        PUD Preliminary Development Plan Approval
Approval of   a PUD     preliminary development   plan is a development       request subject to
Section 2.060(C) of this Ordinance.

A. An application for PUD preliminary development            plan approval shall be initiated as
   provided in Chapter 2 of this ordinance.

B. The.PUD preliminary development plan shall consist of the following:

   1.   Written documents

           A legal description of the total site proposed for development, including a
           statement of present and proposed ownership and present and proposed
           zoning.

           The names and addresses of all owners of adjacent property.

           A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the PUD through the
           particular approach proposed by the applicant.      This statement should
           include a description of the character of the proposed development and
           adjacent areas, discussion of how the proposed development will relate to the
           natural environment and significant landscape features of the site and
           adjacent areas, and the rationale behind the assumptions and choices made
           by the applicant.

           A development       schedule indicating the approximate date when        construction
           of the   PUD    or stages    of the   PUD   can    be   expected   to begin   and    be
           completed.

           A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the future selling or
           leasing of all or portions of the PUD, such as land areas, dwelling units, etc.

                                        ZOCBO4S A —— arene rennet ecomber 16,2009
Page 18-4

                 If common open space is to be deeded to a Homeowners’ Association,                      a
                 declaration of covenants and restrictions that will govern the Association.

                 Quantitative data for the following: total number and type of dwelling units;
                 parcel sizes; proposed lot coverage of buildings and structures; approximate
                 gross and net residential acreages; total amount of open space; amounts of
                 private, common      and   public open    space; total area and types of
                 non-residential construction; economic feasibility studies or market analysis
                 where necessary.

            h. Traffic Impact Analysis, pursuant to Section 4.140.

     2.     Site Plan and Supporting Maps
            A site plan and any maps necessary to show the major details of the proposed
            PUD, containing the following minimum information:

                 The existing site conditions, including contours at five (5) foot intervals, water
                 courses, floodplains and other areas          subject to natural hazards,     significant
                 landscape features, and forest cover.

                 Proposed lot lines and layout design.

                 The location and floor area size of all existing and proposed buildings,
                 structures, and other improvements, including maximum heights, types of
                 dwelling units, and non-residential structures, including commercial facilities.

                 The location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be conveyed,
                 dedicated, or reserved as common or public open spaces or recreational
                 areas, school sites, and similar public and semi-public uses.

                 The existing and         proposed circulation system of arterial, collector, and local
                 streets, including       off-street parking areas, service areas, loading areas, and
                 major points of          access to public rights-of-way.      Notations of proposed
                 ownership, public        or private, should be included where appropriate.

                 The existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including its
                 interrelationships with the vehicular circulation system indicating proposed
                 treatments of points of conflict.

             . The existing and proposed systems for providing sewage                   disposal,   water,
               electricity, gas, fire protection and telephone services.

            h. A general schematic landscape plan indicating the technique and materials to

chapter   1, &   3008. Unit Development                                       9 0 C 9   0 4 5 1
                                                                                                      Page 18-5

           be used for private, common and public open spaces.

           A preliminary subdivision or partition plan if the land is to be divided.

           Information on land areas adjacent to the proposed PUD, including land
           uses, zoning classifications, densities, circulating systems, public facilities,
           and significant landscape features, to show the relationships between the
           proposed development and the adjacent areas.

           The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the PUD, including materials and
           techniques to be used, such as screens, fences and walls.

   3.   The Approving Authority shall decide on the PUD preliminary development plan
        application as provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance; and shall approve the
        preliminary development plan if it finds:

           The proposed PUD is consistent with applicable Comprehensive Plan goals,
           policies and map designations, and with the purpose set forth in Section
           18.010 of this chapter.

           The preliminary development plan meets the                      development        standards      of
           Section 18.060 to Section 18.140 of this chapter.

           If the     preliminary      development     plan     provides    for    phased     development,
           pursuant     to   Section     18.150   of this     chapter,   that     each   phase    meets    the
           standard of Section 18.150(C) and that the applicant has the capability to
           obtain final development plan approval in the time limits imposed.

           Exceptions from the standards of the underlying zone district or from the
           quantitative requirements of Chapter 21 of this Ordinance are warranted by
           amenities and other design features of the PUD furthering the purpose of
           Section 18.010.

           Any conditions or modifications imposed by the Approving Authority on the
           preliminary development     plan   approval  are  necessary    to meet   the
           requirements of Section 18.060 to Section 18.140, to further the purposes of
           Section 18.010, or to comply with the Comprehensive Plan.

SECTION 18.060 Development Standards for Preliminary Development Plan
A PUD preliminary development plan must meet the Development Standards in Section
18.070 through 18.140 of this Chapter.

                                             99090454                      Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                                              December 16, 2009
Page 18-6

SECTION 18.070             Minimum Site Size
The PUD site must be of such a size that at least four (4) dwelling units would be
permitted by the underlying district.

SECTION 18.080 Permitted Uses
The following uses are permitted subject to the general standards of this chapter:

A.   Residential Uses:

     1.     Single-family dwellings or duplexes, and accessory buildings used as garages,
            storerooms, woodsheds, hobby shops, laundries, playhouses, or similar and
            related uses; provided, that there shall not be more than two buildings allowed as
            accessory to any single-family dwelling or duplex and unattached structures shall
            be located on the rear half of the lot.

     2.     Multi-family dwellings,      including   townhouses,   row   houses,       apartments,             and
            condominiums.

B. Commercial Uses:
   Retail commercial uses shall be permitted, except in the "FF" zone, if the Approving
     Authority determines that they are designed to serve primarily the residents of the
     PUD and their guests.     The Approving Authority may require that the applicant
     submit     a market       analysis demonstrating    what the amount     of land           proposed         for
     commercial use is needed for, and realistically can be supported in, commercial use
     by the residents of the PUD and their guests.

C. Other Uses:
   If designed to serve primarily the residents of a PUD and their guests, the following
   uses are permitted.     If designed to serve residents of adjacent areas as well, the
   following uses may be permitted by the Approving Authority if it finds that such use
   is consistent with the purposes of Section 18.010 of this Chapter and with the
   underlying zone district.

     1.     Public and semi-public buildings, including schools, churches,                             libraries,
            community centers, fire stations, pump stations, and substations.

     2.     Park, playground or golf course.

     3.     Privately operated kindergartens or day nurseries.

     4.     Home occupations.

Chapter 18, Planned   Unit Development                                       2     0   C   9   0   4   5   4
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                  Page 18-7

SECTION       18.090   Residential Density

A. Basic Allowable Density:         Unless an increase in density is allowed by the Approving
   Authority as provided in subsection (B) of this section, the number of dwelling units
   shall not exceed the number that would be allowed on the gross acreage of the PUD
   if dwelling units of same type were built at the minimum lot sizes specified by the
   underlying zoning district. A preliminary development plan meets this standard if the
   density ratio, computed     as provided in subsection (C) of this section, is less than or
   equal to 1.00.

 . The Approving Authority may permit an increase of up to twenty-five percent (25%)
   in the allowable density if the proposed PUD is to be served by the community water
   supply     and   sanitary sewer    systems,   and   the Approving     Authority finds that such
   increase in density contributes to the purposes of Section 18.010, by providing one
   or more of the following:

        . Distinctiveness and excellence in design (up to five per cent (5%) increase).
  =

   2.     Additional common    open space, over that required by Section 18.110 (up to five
          percent (5%) increase).

   3.     Recreational amenities (up to five percent (5%) increase).

   4.     Preservation of significant landscape features of the site, or avoidance of areas
          with natural hazard site limitations, beyond what is required by Section 18.110
          (up to five percent (5%) increase).

   5.     Improvement of air, water or noise level qualities of the area (up to five percent
          (5%) increase).

   6.     Energy conservation or use of renewable energy resources (up to five percent
          (5%) increase).

   7.     Location of housing convenient to transportation facilities, commercial services,
          employment opportunities, and      public facilities and services (up to five percent
          (5%) increase).

   A preliminary development          plan meets   such an increased         density standard        if the
   Density Ratio, computed as provided in subsection (C) of this section, is less than or
   equal to a number determined by increasing 1.00 by the percentage of the approved
   density increase.

                                       2 0 ¢ 9 0 4 i) 1                Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                                         December 16, 2009
Page 18-8

Cc. Density Ratio Computation:

    1.      For each residential structure proposed on the preliminary PUD                                plan, determine
            the minimum lot size specified for that structure by the underlying zone district.                                If
            a proposed      residential      structure      is of a type   not   permitted       in the            underlying
            district, for the purpose of calculating

            Density Ratio, it will be assumed that the minimum                   lot size of such a structure is
            that specified by the underlying district for a single-family dwelling multiplied by
            the number of dwelling units in the structure.

    2.      Add the specified minimum                lot sizes for all proposed      residential structures as
            determined in (1) above.

    3.      Divide this sum by the gross acreage of the proposed PUD.

SECTION 18.100             Building Spacing

A. A preliminary development plan shall provide for reasonable light, ventilation, and
    visual and acoustic privacy for residences and other structures. Fences, insulation,
    walks, barriers, and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate for the protection and
    aesthetic enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants, screening of
    objectionable views, and reduction of noise. High-rise buildings shall be located
    within a PUD in such a way as to avoid adverse impact on neighboring low-rise
    buildings and          shall    not     invade    the   privacy   of the     occupants           of    such        low-rise
    buildings.

    If the Approving Authority determines that a preliminary development plan meets the
    standards of subsection (A) of this section, it may waive the lot area, lot width, lot
    coverage, setback and height requirements of the underlying zone district.

    If the Approving Authority finds it necessary to meet the perimeter design standards
    of Section        18.140,      it may    require a special setback from all or a portion of the
    perimeter of the PUD.

SECTION 18.110             Open Space

A. At least sixty percent (60%) of the gross acreage of the PUD must be open space.
    At least twenty-five percent (25%) of the total open space provided shall be private
    and at least fifty percent (50%) of the total open space provided shall be common or
    public. Not more than one-half of the common or public open space provided may

Chapter 18, Planned   Unit Development                                               9   0   G   9    0    4   5   1
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                           Page 18-9

  be areas covered with water.
. Locations, shapes, sizes, and                 other    characteristics       of   open      spaces     shall     be
 consistent with their proposed                uses and the purposes of the PUD.                       Unless the
 Approving Authority requires

 Otherwise to meet the Environmental Design Standards of Section 18.120, common
 or public open space shall be distributed equitably throughout the PUD in relation to
 the dwelling units of the residents they are intended to serve.

. Open     spaces   shall     be    suitably    improved      for the      intended    use.      Open      spaces
 containing    significant         landscape     features     may     be    left    unimproved     or    may       be
 improved to assure protection of the features, subject to requirements imposed by
 the Approving Authority pursuant to Section 18.120.

. The development schedule required by Section 18.050(B)(1)(d) shall provide for
  coordination of the improvement of open spaces with the construction of other
  proposed site improvements.

. The Approving Authority shall require that the applicant assure the permanence of
  the common or public open space required by this section in one of the following
 ways:

 1.   By conveying the open space to a public agency which will agree to maintain the
      open space and any buildings, structures, or improvements which have been
      placed on it; or

 2.   By   conveying        the    open    space    to    a   Homeowners’           Association,       subject      to
      covenants running with the fand which restrict the common                            open space to the
      uses specified in the final development plan, and which provide for the
      maintenance of the common open space in a manner which assures its
      continuing use for its intended purpose.

. If the common      open         space    is to be deeded       to     a Homeowners’         Association, the
 declaration of covenants            and    restrictions required       by Section      18.050(B)(1)(f) shall
 include the following:

 1. The Homeowners’ Association must be set up before the homes are sold.                                        Prior
      to such sale, the property owner assumes the responsibility of that                                    share
      attributable to each unsold home defined in the Homeowners’ Association.

 2.   Membership must be mandatory for each home buyer and any successive buyer.

 3. The open space restrictions must be permanent, not just for a period of years.

                                          20090457                             Haan eennes ecember 10,2008
Page 18-10

    4.     The association must be responsible for liability insurance, local taxes, and the
           maintenance of recreational and other facilities.

    5.     Residence owners must pay their pro rata share of the cost.                    The assessment
           levied by the Association can become a lien on their property.

    6. The association must be abie to adjust the assessment to meet changed needs.

G. If the common open space is to be deeded to a Homeowners’ Association, the
   Approving Authority shall require that one of the following enforcement methods be
    provided by the applicant:

    1.     Conveyance to the County of the legal right to develop the common open space
           for uses not specified in the final development plan; or

    2.     Inclusion in the conveyance of the common open space, a condition that the fee
           title of the common open space shall vest in the County in the event of a
           substantial         default   in the conditions     and   restrictions governing     the   use   and
           maintenance of the common open spaces; or

    3.     Inclusion in the conveyance of the common open space a condition that, in the
           event a common open space is permitted to deteriorate or is not used and
           maintained consistently with the final development plan, the County may, at its
           own option, cause such maintenance to be done and assess the cost to
           members of the association.

SECTION          18.120        Environmental Design

A. The preliminary development plan shall provide, to the greatest extent possible, for
    the preservation of significant landscape features, historic sites, and landmarks and
    for the    integration  of the    proposed   development     with the environmental
    characteristics of the site and adjacent areas. The Approving Authority may require
    that significant landscape features and historical sites be preserved as part of the
    common or public open space of the project.

    Excessive           site     clearing   of   topsoil,    trees   and   natural   features     before    the
    commencement                 of construction operations shall be discouraged.             The Approving
    Authority may require the applicant to submit a grading plan detailing proposed
    excavation, earth-moving procedures, and other changes to the landscape, in order
    to ensure preservation of the character of the area to be retained in open space.

    Sites for residential and non-residential buildings shall be discouraged in areas of
    natural hazards, such as floodplains, areas subject to landslides, areas with average

Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development                                           9 0 Q 9 0 4 5 4
December     16, 2009
                                                                                                                         Page 18-11

    slopes     greater       than      twenty-five      percent    (25%)         and     areas        with      unstable        soil
    formations. The Approving Authority shall require that all floodplains be preserved
    as permanent common or public open space, and may require that other natural
    hazard areas be included in the common or public open space of the proposed
    development        and        be left unimproved          or improved         to assure minimization of the
    hazard.

    All manufactured          slopes, other than those constructed in rock, shall be planted or
    otherwise     protected          from   the   effects    of storm     runoff erosion,              and     shall     be    of a
    character to cause the slope to blend with the surrounding terrain and development.
     The applicant           shali     provide    for   maintenance         of     the     planting          until     growth      is
    established.

    The preliminary development plan shall promote the conservation of energy and use
    of solar or other renewable energy resources through such factors as the location
    and extent of site improvements, the orientation and exposure of buildings and
    usable open spaces, the types of buildings, and the selection of building materials.

SECTION       18.130     Traffic Circulation
The location and number of points of access to the site, the interior circulation pattem
of streets and pedestrian ways, the separations between                                pedestrians and moving and
parked vehicles, and the arrangement of parking areas in relation to buildings and uses
shall    be   designed       to      maximize     safety     and   convenience            and     be     compatible             with
neighboring road systems, buildings and uses.

SECTION       18.140     Perimeter Design

A. The preliminary development plan shall minimize adverse impacts of proposed uses
    and structures in the PUD                on existing and        anticipated          uses and        structures in the
    adjacent area.

    If topographical or other barriers do not provide reasonable privacy for existing uses
    adjacent to the development, the Approving Authority shall require one or more of
    the following:

    1.   A special setback, or setbacks, of residential and non-residential structures shall
         be located on the perimeter.

    2.   Residential     and         non-residential        structures    located        on     the     perimeter         of the
         development shall be               screened        by fencing,    landscaping,               or other       natural      or
         man-made materials.

                                                           90454
                                                  2 6 G z) 0                            Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                                                           December 16, 2009
Page 18-12

SECTION        18.150      Development Phasing

A. The applicant may provide in the preliminary development plan for development of
   the project in up to three (3) phases.

    In acting to approve the preliminary development plan, the Approving Authority may
    require that development be completed in up to three (3) specific phases, if it finds
    that     public     facilities   would   not   otherwise   be   adequate     to     serve   the    entire
    development.

  . If the preliminary development plan provides for phased development, each phase
    shall provide for the same ratio of open space and/or recreational facilities to
    dwelling units as the over-all project. Development of accessory commercial uses
    shall be limited to the final phase.

    The following time limitations shall be observed in phased development proposals:

    1.     Phase 1--final development plan must be approved within twelve (12) months of
           the date of preliminary plan approvai.

    2.     Phase 2--final development plan must be approved                    within    twenty-four     (24)
           months of the date of preliminary plan approval.

    3.     Phase 3--final development plan must be approved within thirty-six (36) months
           of the date of preliminary plan approval.

SECTION        18.160      Duration of PUD Preliminary Development Plan Approval

A. Approval of the preliminary development plan shall be valid for twelve (12) months
    from the date of approval, provided that if an approved preliminary development
    plan provides for phased development, the approval shall be valid for the time
    specified for each phase, subject to the time limitations of Section 18.150(D) of this
    Section.

    If any time limit for obtaining final development plan approval is exceeded, the
    approved preliminary development plan, or phase of the preliminary development
    plan and any subsequent phase, shall be void. Any subsequent proposal by the
    applicant for planned development of the subject property shall be deemed a new
    development request.

Chapter 18, Pianned   Unit Development
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                   Page 18-13

SECTION         18.180   PUD Final Development Plan Approval
Approval        of a PUD     final development     plan   is subject to Section        2.060(C)     of this
Ordinance.

A.   Within twelve (12) months of the date of approval of the preliminary development
     plan, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 18.150 and 18.170 of this
     Ordinance, the applicant shall submit a final development plan, prepared by an
     Oregon registered engineer, and supporting documents to the Director.

B. The final development plan shall include:

     1. The site plan and maps submitted pursuant to Section 18.050(B)(2) in their final,
          detailed form, and including reasonable assurance that an adequate,                     potable,
          year-round water supply is available for the development.

          The    documents       submitted    pursuant    to   Section   18.050(B)(1)       amended        to
          incorporate      any   conditions   imposed     on   the   preliminary    development        plan
          approval.

          Final subdivision plat or partition map, if the land is to be divided.

          Except as permitted by the Approving Authority pursuant to subsection (F) of this
          section, documents     conveying  common     open   space to a Homeowners’
          Association, including the restrictive covenants and conditions required by
          Section 18.110(E) to (G).

          Articles of Incorporation of the Homeowners' Association                 formed     to maintain
          common open space and other common improvements.

C. The Director shall require the applicant to enter into an agreement with the County
   to complete all improvements required by the final development plan according to a
   schedule set forth in the agreement.

D. Agreement for Improvements:

     1.   Before approval of the final development plan, the applicant shail either install
          the improvements required by the preliminary plan approval and repair existing
          streets and other public facilities damaged in the development of the PUD, or
          shall execute and file with the Court an agreement between himself and the
          County specifying the period within which required improvements and repairs will
          be completed. The agreement may provide for the construction of the required
          improvements in phases.       The agreement shall provide that if work is not
          completed within the period specified, the County may complete the work and
          recover the full cost and expense thereof from the applicant.

                                          9 0 t] 9 0 4 5 4               Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                                            December 16, 2009
Page 18-14

     2.    An    applicant       may   request   an   extension   of time   for   completion    of   required
           improvements.          Such request will be considered an application for Administrative
           Action. Such extension shall be approved only if changed conditions for which
           the applicant is not responsible have made it impossible for him/her to fulfill the
           agreement within the original time limit(s).

E.   Performance Bond:

     1.    To assure full performance of the improvement agreement, an applicant shall file
           one of the following:

           a.    A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact business
                 in the State of Oregon on a form approved by the District Attorney; or

           b. Cash deposit with the County Treasurer; or

           c.    Certification    or letter of assurance      by a bank     or other    reputable     lending
                 institution that money is being held to cover the cost of improvements and
                 incidental expenses, and that said money will be released only upon the
                 direction of the Director of Public Works. The bank certification or letter of
                 assurance shall be approved by the District Attorney; or

           d. Cash deposit with an escrow agent authorized to transact business in the
                 State of Oregon subject to escrow instructions that require the escrow agent
                 to release the money only upon the direction of the Director of Public Works.
                 Escrow instructions shall be approved by the District Attomey.

     2.    Such assurance of full and faithful performance shall be for a sum determined by
           the County Roadmaster to be sufficient to cover the cost of the improvements
           and    repairs that may       be required    prior to approval    of the final plan, including
           related engineering, and may include an additional percentage as determined by
           the County        Roadmaster to cover any inflationary costs which            may be incurred
           during the construction period prior to the full and final completion of the project.

     3.    If the applicant fails to carry out provisions of the improvement agreement and
           the County has unreimbursed costs or expenses resulting from such failure, the
           County shall call on the bond or cash deposit for reimbursement.                    If the amount
           of the bond or cash deposit exceeds the cost and expense incurred, the
           remainder shall be released. If the amount of the bond or cash deposit is less
           than the cost arid expense incurred, the applicant shall be liable to the County
           for the difference.

Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                            20090454
December     16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 18-15

F. Action By the Approving Authority:
     The        Approving   Authority shall take   action on the application for final approval          in
     accordance with the procedures outlined in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance, and shall
     approve the final development plan if:

     1.    The applicant has submitted all information and documents required pursuant to
           subsection (B), (C) and (D) of this section; and

     2.    The final development plan is in substantial compliance with the approved
           preliminary development plan and any conditions imposed by the Approving
           Authority. Substantial compliance means that any differences between the final
           and preliminary plan are "minor amendments" as defined in Section 18.200(A)(1)
           of this chapter.

G. Recording a Final Development Plans:
     The approved final development plan shall be recorded in the County Clerk's office
     within thirty (30) days of the date of approval.

SECTION           18.190    Expiration of Final Development Plan Approval

A.   If the Director determines that no substantial construction or development has
     occurred within two (2) years of the date of approval of the final development plan
     for a PUD, or for a phase thereof, the Director shall initiate an Administrative Action
     to consider invalidating the final development plan approval.

B. The Approving Authority shall invalidate such final development plan approval
   unless it determines that the applicant was not responsible for the failure to
   complete substantial construction, and that the applicant will be able to complete the
   development within two (2) years.

C.   If final development approval is invalidated, any subsequent proposal by the
     applicant for planned development of the subject property shall be deemed a new
     application for preliminary development plan approval.

SECTION           18.200     Amendments     to Approved     Preliminary and Final Development
                             Plans

A.   Definitions:

     1.    "Minor Amendment" means a change which:

           a.    Does not increase residential densities;

                                                   9 0 G 9 0 4 5 1    Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development
                                                                                        December 16, 2009
Page 18-16

         b. Does not enlarge the boundaries of the approved plan;

         c.   Does not change any use;

         d.   Does not change the general location or amount of land devoted to a specific
              land use, including open space;

         e.   Does not eliminate the preservation of a significant landscape feature; and

         f.   Includes only minor shifting of the location of buildings, proposed public or
              private streets, pedestrian ways, utility easements, or common or public open
              spaces.

    2.   "Major Amendment" is any change which does not meet the definition of a "Minor
         Amendment".

B. A minor amendment to an approved preliminary or final development plan may be
   approved ministerially by the Director.

C. A major amendment to an approved preliminary or final development plan shall be
   considered a new development request subject to the provisions of Chapter 2 of this
   ordinance.

SECTION 18.210           Granting of Extensions (Added 5-93)
An applicant may request an extension of the validity of a planned unit development
permit approval. Such request shall be considered an Administrative Action and shall
be submitted to the Director prior to the expiration of such approval, in writing, stating
the reason why an extension should be granted.

The Director may grant an extension of up to twelve (12) months in the validity of the
planned unit development permit approval if it is determined that unexpected conditions
would prevent the applicant from commencing his operation within the original time
limitation.

Chapter 18, Planned Unit Development                            2 0 C   9 0 4 5   4
December 16, 2009                                                                 wt
                   DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                   CHAPTER 20 SITE PLAN REVIEW

SECTION   TITLE                                                 PAGE
20.010    PURPOSE                                               20-1
20. 020   APPROVAL, REJECTION AND MODIFICATION                  20-1
20.030    CONTENTS OF THE SITE PLAN                             20-1
20.040    APPROVAL STANDARDS                                    20-2
20.050    OFF-STREET PARKING                                    20-3
20.055    BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS                          20-5
20.060    PUBLIC PARKING AREA                                   20-7
20.070    OFF-STREET LOADING                                    20-7
20.080    GENERAL PROVISIONS-OFF-STREET PARKING                 20-8
          AND LOADING
20.090    HOME OCCUPATIONS                                      20-9
20.100    HOME OCCUPATION TO HOST COMMERCIAL EVENTS             20-100

                             20690451
                                                 Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
                                                           December    16, 2009
                                                                                                     Page 20-1

                                    CHAPTER 20     SITE PLAN REVIEW

SECTION 20.010 Purpose
The purpose of the Site Plan Review procedure is to enable the Approving Authority to
review development proposals for conformity with the provisions of this ordinance and to
allow the imposition of such conditions on the development or projects as are necessary
to bring it into conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and surrounding development.

SECTION 20.020 Approval, Rejection and Modification
Any such site plan may be approved, rejected and modified, or approved subject to
conditions. Any such site plan, after approval, shall be amended through the same
procedure as in the initial approval of such site plan; except, that minor alterations or
modification to a previously approved site plan may be approved by the Planning Director;
provided that, in the judgment of the Planning Director, such modifications or alterations
do not represent deviations of a substantial nature.

SECTION 20.030 Contents of the Site Pian
The Site Plan shall clearly indicate the following information:

A.   Lot dimensions.

B. Location,     size,    height,    of all existing or proposed     buildings    and    structures,     and
     illustrating the buildings and parking facilities on abutting properties.

C.   Location, size      and    dimension   of all yards   and   setbacks   and    all spaces      between
     buildings.

D. Walls and fences:           Location, height and materials.

E.   Off-street parking:

     1.   Location, dimensions and method of improvement of all driveways and parking
          areas consistent with Sections 20.050 & 20.080.

     2.   Number of spaces consistent with Section 20.050 & 20.080 and internal circulation
          pattern.

     3.   Size and location of existing and proposed curb openings.

F. Access:      Pedestrian, vehicular, service; and definitions of all points of ingress and
   egress.

                                                   2 0 6 g 0 4 5 4                Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
                                                                                            December 16, 2009
Page 20-2

G. Signs:         Location, size, height, material and method of illumination.

H. Loading:    Location, dimensions, number of spaces, internal circulation and                                         access
    from public right-of-way consistent with 20.070 & 20.080.

     Lighting:      General nature, location and hooding devices (not including interior building
     lighting).

 . The location, dimensions and methods of improvement for all property to be dedicated
   to general public purposes or to public utilities.

    A detailed plan for landscaping,            if determined          necessary           by the Planning              Director
    which shall clearly illustrate:

     1.     Plants and     tree   species,   their   initial   sizes        and    other       proposed         landscaping
            materials.

    2.      The location and dimensions of all areas                   to    be devoted          to landscaping,            and
            location of automatic sprinkler systems.

    Outdoor storage and activities, if permitted               in the zone,          showing        type, location and
    height of screening devices.

  . Drainage and grading plan.

  . Identification of proposed trash storage locations,                           including      proposed           enclosure
    design construction and access for pick-up purposes.

    Location of existing utility poles.

    Such data as may be required by the Planning Director to act on the application.

SECTION 20.040 Approval Standards
Upon completion of the Site Plan Review, the Approving Authority shall approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove the site plan.    In approving the plan, the Approving
Authority shall find that:

A. All provisions of this ordinance and other applicable ordinances are complied with.

    Elements of the site plan are arranged so that:

     1. Traffic congestion is avoided.

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review                                                               9   0 CG 9   0   4   5   q
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                       Page 20-3

     2.   Pedestrian and vehicular safety and welfare are protected.

     3. Significant features and public amenities are preserved and maintained.

     4. There will be minimal adverse effect on surrounding property.

C.   Proposed lighting is arranged to direct light away from adjoining properties.

D. Proposed          signs will not interfere with traffic or limit visibility by size,          location or
     illumination.

SECTION 20.050           Off-Street Parking
At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of enlargement or change in use
of an existing structure, off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with this
Section. In an existing use, the parking space shall not be eliminated if elimination would
result in less space than is required by this Section. Where square feet are specified the
area measured shall be the gross floor area necessary to the functioning of the particular
use of the property but shall exclude space devoted to off-street parking or loading.
Where employees are specified, persons counted shall be those working on the premises
during the largest shift at peak season, including proprietors.

The following are the uses and minimum standards provided for off-street parking:

A. Residential

     1.   Single-family dwelling:    One (1) space per dwelling unit.

     2.   Residential hotel, rooming or boarding house:                Four (4) spaces per five (5) guest
          accommodations, plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

     3.   Two family or multi-family dwellings:     Three (3) spaces per two (2) dwelling units.

B. Commercial Residential

1.   Motel:   One (1) space per guest room plus one (1) space for owner or manager.

2.   Club or Lodge:        One (1) space per five (5) seats, or one (1) space for each fifty (50)
     square feet of floor area used for assembly, whichever is greater.

C.   Institutional

     1. Welfare or correctional institutions:      One (1) space per five (5) beds for patients or

                                                   2   0   G   9   0   4   5   1    Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
                                                                                              December 16, 2009
Page 20-4

            inmates, plus one (1) space per employee.

     2.     Convalescent hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, rest home for the aged: One (1)
            space per five (5) beds for patients or residents, plus one (1) space per employee.

     3.     Hospital: Three (3) spaces per two (2) beds.

D.   Places of Public Assembly

     1. Church:      One (1) space for four (4) seats or every eight (8) feet of bench length in
            the main auditorium.

            Library, reading room, museum, art gallery: One (1) space per four hundred (400)
            square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per two employees.

            Pre-school,    nursery,   kindergarten:     Two   (2) spaces   per teacher;   plus off-street
            loading and unloading facility.

            Elementary or junior high school: One (1) space per classroom plus one (1) space
            per administrative employee or one (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight (8)
            feet of bench length in the main auditorium, whichever is greater.

            High School: One (1) space per classroom plus one (1) space per administrative
            employee plus one (1) space for each six (6) students or ore (1) space per four (4)
            seats or eight (8) feet of bench length in the main auditorium, whichever is greater.

            Other auditorium, meeting room:           One (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight
            (8) feet of bench length.

E.   Commercial Amusement

     1.     Stadium, arena, theater:      One (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight (8) feet of
            bench length or equivalent capacity if no seating is provided.

     2.     Bowling alley: Five (5) spaces per alley plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

     3.     Dance hall, skating rink: One (1) space per one hundred (100) square feet of floor
            area plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

F.   Commercial

     1.     Retail store except as provided in subsection (2):        One (1) space per two hundred
            (200) square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
December     16, 2009

                                                              20690454
                                                                                             Page 20-5

          Service or repair shop, retail store handling exclusively in bulk merchandise such
          as automobiles and furniture: One (1) space per six hundred (600) square feet of
          floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

          Bank, office (except medical and dental): One (1) space per six hundred (600)
          square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

          Medical and dental clinic: One (1) space per three hundred (300) square feet of
          floor area plus one (1) space for every four (4) seats.

          Eating and drinking establishment: One (1) space per two hundred (200) square
          feet of floor area, plus one (1) space for every four seats.

          Mortuaries:   One (1) space per four (4) seats or every (8) feet of bench length in
          chapels.

G.   Industrial

     1.   Storage warehouse,    manufacturing establishment, rail or trucking freight terminal:
          One (1) space per employee.

          Wholesale establishment:      One   (1) space per employee   plus one (1) space per
          seven hundred (700) square feet of patron serving area.

SECTION 20.055 BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of enlargement or change in use
of an existing structure, bicycle parking shall be provided in accordance with the
following standards:

A. Number of Bicycle Parking Spaces - A minimum of two (2) bicycle parking spaces
   per use is required for all uses with greater than 10 vehicle parking spaces. The
   following additional standards apply to specific types of development:

     1.   Multi-Family Residences - Every residential use of four (4) or more dwelling units
          provides at least one (1) sheltered bicycle parking space for each dwelling unit.
          Sheltered bicycle parking spaces may be located within a garage, storage shed,
          basement, utility room or similar area. In those instances in which the residential
          complex has no garage or other easily accessible storage unit, the bicycle
          parking spaces may be sheltered from sun and precipitation under an eave,
          overhang, an independent structure, or similar cover.

     2.   Parking Lots - All public and commercial parking lots and parking structures
          provide a minimum of one (1) bicycle parking space for every 10 motor vehicle

                                                                          Chapter 20, Site Plan Review

                                               2 0 C 9 0 4 5 4                      December 16, 2009
Page 20-6

            parking spaces.
    3.      Schools - Elementary and middie schools,              both private and     public, provide one
            (1) bicycle parking space for every 10 students and employees. High schools
            provide one bicycle parking space for every 5 students and employees.    All
            spaces   shall be sheltered         under an eave,    overhang,    independent     structure, or
            similar cover.

    4.      Colleges and trade schools provide one (1) bicycle parking space for every 10
            motor vehicle      spaces       plus one   space   for every   dormitory   unit.   Fifty percent
            (50%) of the bicycle parking spaces shall be sheltered under an eave, overhang,
            independent structure, or similar cover.

    5.      County Commercial           -   Within the County commercial         and employment zones
            (Rural Commercial,  Rural Industrial,   Wamic    Commercial, Tygh Valley
            Commercial, Tygh Valley Light Industrial/Commercial, Tygh Valley Medium
            Industrial/Commercial), where the proposed use is commercial, bicycle parking
            for customers shall be provided along the roadway at a rate of at least one (1)
            space per use. Individual uses shall provide their own parking, or spaces may
            be clustered to serve up to six (6) bicycles.              Bicycle parking spaces shail be
            located in front of the stores along the roadway, either on the sidewalks or in
            specially constructed areas such as pedestrian curb extensions.      Inverted "U”
            style racks are recommended. Bicycle parking shail not interfere with pedestrian
            passage, leaving a clear area of at least 36 inches between bicycles and other
            existing and potential obstructions.    Customer spaces may or may not be
            sheltered.  When provided, sheltered parking (within a building, or under an
            eave, overhang, or similar structure shall be provided at a rate of one (1) space
            per 10 employees, with a minimum of one space per store.

    6.      Multiple Uses - For buildings with multiple uses (such as a commercial or mixed
            use center), bicycle parking standards shall be calculated by using the total
            number of motor vehicle parking spaces required for the entire development. A
            minimum of one (1) bicycle parking space for every 10 motor vehicle parking
            spaces is required.

B. Exemptions - This Section does not apply to single family, two-family, and three-
   family housing (attached, detached or manufactured housing), home occupations,
   agriculture and livestock uses, or other developments with fewer than 10 vehicle
   parking spaces.

C. Location and Design - Bicycle parking shall be conveniently located with respect to
    both the road right-of-way and at least one building entrance (e.g., no farther away
    than the closest parking space). It should be incorporated whenever possible into
    building design and coordinated with the design of street furniture when it is
    provided.    Street furniture includes benches, street lights, planters and other

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
December 16, 2000                                                      99090451
                                                                                           Page 20-7

   pedestrian amenities.
 . Visibility and   Security - Bicycle   parking shall be visible to cyclists from       roadway
   sidewalks or building entrances, so that it provides sufficient security from theft and
   damage;

 . Options for Storage - Bicycle parking requirements for long-term and employee
   parking can be met by providing a bicycle storage room, bicycle lockers, racks, or
   other secure storage space inside or outside of the building;

F. Lighting - Bicycle parking shall be least as well lit as vehicle parking for security.

G. Reserved Areas - Areas set aside for bicycle parking shall be clearly marked and
   reserved for bicycle parking only.

   Hazards - Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to pedestrians.
   Parking areas shall be located to avoid conflict with vision clearance standards
   (Section 4.090 Vision Clearance).

SECTION 20.060       Public Parking Area
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public parking area or an automobile or trailer
sales area shall be developed as follows:

A. Such areas shall be surfaced with permanent paving; they shall have bumper rails or
   curbs and be enclosed by a sturdy wall, fence or evergreen hedge not less than thirty
   (30) inches in height nor more than six (6) feet in height. Such wall, fence or hedge
   shall not enclose any required front yard or required side yard on the street side of a
   comer lot. Any such required front or side yard shall be properly maintained. Where
   such public parking area abuts or lies within an "A" and "R" zone, the required wall,
   fence or hedge shall not be less than six (6) feet in height on the sides or rear yards
   abutting or within such "A" or "R" zone.

   Where a public parking area or automobile or trailer sales area is illuminated, the
   lights shall be fixed so as to reflect away from adjoining premises in residential zones.

SECTION 20.070      Off-Street Loading

A. Schools: A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of passenger vehicles for
   the purpose of loading and unloading children shall be located on the site of any
   school having a capacity greater than twenty-five (25) students.

   Merchandise, materials or supplies: Buildings or structures to be built or substantially
   altered to receive and distribute materials or merchandise by truck shall provide and

                                             2 0 0 9 0 4   F   4        Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
                                                                                  December 16, 2009
Page 20-8

    maintain off-street loading berths in sufficient numbers and size to adequately handle
    the needs of the particular use. If loading space has been provided in connection with
    an existing use or is added to an existing use, the loading space shall not be
    eliminated      if elimination     would   result in less space      than    is required         to adequately
    handle the needs of the particular use. Off-street parking areas used to fulfill the
    requirements of this Ordinance shall not be used for loading and unloading operations
    except during periods of the day when not required to take care of parking needs.

SECTION 20.080            General Provisions - Off-Street Parking and Loading

A. The      provisions         and   maintenance    of   off-street   parking    and       loading     spaces     are
    continuing obligations of the property owner.               No building permit shall be issued until
    plans are presented that show property that is and will remain available for exclusive
    use of off-street parking and loading space. The subsequent use of property for which
    the building permit is issued shall be conditional upon the unqualified continuance and
    availability of the amount of parking and loading space required by this Ordinance.
    Should the owner or occupant of a lot or building change the use to which the lot or
    building is put, thereby increasing off-street parking or loading requirements, it shall be
    unlawful and a violation of this Ordinance to begin or maintain such altered use until
    the required increase in off-street parking or loading is provided.

  . Requirements for types of buildings and uses not specifically listed herein shall be
    determined by the Director of Planning based upon the requirements of comparable
    uses listed herein.

  . In the event several uses occupy a single structure or parcel of land, the total
    requirements for off-street parking shall be the sum of the requirements of the several
    uses computed separately.

  . Owners of two or more uses, structures or parcels of land may agree to utilize jointly
    the same parking and loading spaces when the hours of operation do not overiap.

  . Off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same or abutting lot with the building
    or use they are intended to serve.

  , Required parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable passenger
    automobiles of residents, customers, patrons and employees only, and shall not be
    used     for storage         of vehicles   or materials     or for the      parking      of trucks     used     in
    conducting the business or use.

  . Plans shall be submitted in sufficient detail so                  that they     may       be     reviewed     and
    approved by the appropriate reviewing authority.

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
December 16, 2009                                                9 0 0 9 0 4 5         4
                                                                                      Page 20-9

H. Design requirements for parking lots:

   1. Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall have a durable and
        dustless, but not necessarily paved, surface maintained adequately for all weather
        use.

   2.   Except for parking to serve residential uses, parking and loading areas adjacent to
        or within residential zones or adjacent to residential uses shall be designed to
        minimize disturbance of residents.

   3. Access aisles shall be of sufficient width for all vehicle turning and maneuvering.

   4.   Groups of more than four (4) parking spaces shall be served by a driveway so that
        no backing movement or other maneuvering will be required within a street.

   5.   Lighting of the parking area shall be deflected from a residential zone.

   Required parking spaces shail be improved and available for use by the time the use
   to be served by the parking space is ready for occupancy.

SECTION 20.090 Home Occupations
Home occupations, as defined in Section 1.090 shall be subject to Sections 2.040 —
20.080 as well as the following criteria:

A. Will be operated by a resident of the property on which the business is located;

   Will employ no more than five full or part-time persons.

 . Will be operated substantially in the dwelling or other buildings normally associated
   with uses permitted in the zone in which the property is located.

   Will not interfere with existing uses on nearby land or with other uses permitted in the
   zonie in which the property is located;

   Will have retail sales only as an activity incidental or secondary to the primary home
   occupation use;

   Will not display, or create outside the structure, any extemal evidence of the operation
   of the home occupation other than one non-animated, non-illuminated name plate, on
   premises, and in conformance with the size restrictions of the underlying zone;

 . The home occupation shall not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in
   the zone in which the property is located.

                                              Q0C9045L — mrsscees
Page 20-10

H. Construction of a structure that would               not otherwise be allowed      in the zone is not
   permitted.

I.   Will be reviewed annually by the Approving Authority. The approval shall continue if
     the home occupation continues to comply with the requirements of this section.

On High Value Lands in the Exclusive Farm Use Zone (Not Applicable to Section 20.100)

J.   Home     occupations       may   only    be    authorized   in existing   dwelling    and   structures
     accessory to an existing dwelling.

K.   Home occupations may not be authorized in structures accessory to resource use.

L. A home occupation located on high-value farmland may employ only residents of
     the home.

Section 20.100          Home Occupation to Host Commercial Events (Exclusive Farm Use
Zone only)                   '

The section is not intended to apply to events hosted at such public gathering places as
churches,      community       centers,    grange    halls, or schools,    or similar structures;     or to
events hosted by non-profit organizations for charitable purposes. Nor is this Ordinance
intended to apply to events               covered   by the State’s    Mass     Gathering    Statute (ORS
433.735 - 433.770).

In addition to meeting Sections 20.010 — 20.090                   above,     home   occupations to host
commercial events must meet the following criteria:

A. Frequency _of Events:     This shall be determined through                    the review      process to
   minimize the potential impact to the local agricultural region.

B. Maximum          Number of Guests: Shall be based on the capacity of the site, but shall
     not include more than 300 guests at any one event.

C.   Duration of Event: This shall be determined based on the potential impact to
     adjacent properties but no event shall take place outside the hours of 7:00 am —
     10:00 pm.

D. Noise: It is unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
   continued, any noise, which unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
     the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of a reasonable person of normal
     sensitivities present in the area. Factors to consider in evaluating whether a noise is

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
December 16, 2009                                                          200 9045         4
                                                                                             Page 20-11

  loud, disturbing, or excessive for the purposes of this section, shall include, but not
  be limited to the following:

       The volume of the noise;
       The intensity of the noise;
       The duration of the noise;
       Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant;
       The time of day or night the noise occurs;
       Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
       Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
       The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates and where it
       is received;
  «    Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial activity.

 Noise shall be considered excessive and in violation of this Section if it meets one of
 the following criteria:

  1. The noise is plainly audible from within any closed dwelling unit that is not the
     source of the sound; or

  2.   The sound      peak pressure level of the noise, as measured       on the A scale, shall
       not exceed sixty (60) dB(A) during the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. as
       measured at any of the complainant’s property lines within a residential district or
       near a residential area.

. Parking: At least 200 square feet of parking space shall be required for each
  vehicle. Parking areas may be developed using paving blocks, gravel, or other
  pervious surfaces; asphalt, concrete and other imperious materials shall be
  prohibited.

. Fire & Emergency Vehicle Access:       Shall comply with Fire                  &    Life    Safety
  Requirements for Fire Department Access and Water Supplies.

. Catering:    Operator shali ensure that only caterers licensed in the States of Oregon
  or Washington are contracted to provide food; caterers shall be bonded.

  Alcohol: Operator shall comply with all requirements of the Oregon Liquor Control
  Commission (OLCC), if alcohol is served during an event.

. Toilet_facilities shall be portable with available hand-sanitizing or hand-washing
  facilities. Use of the dwelling’s on-site septic facilities is not allowed for an event,
  except by residents or over-night guests of the facility.

                                                    2 0 G g ‘ 4 5     4   Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
                                                                                    December 16, 2009
Page 20-12

K. Sign:         One temporary sign may be allowed in addition any other sign allowed as part
     of a prior approval. The sign shali not exceed eight (8) square feet in size and shall
     be placed on private property on the day of the event and shall be removed within
     24 hours after the event.

L.   Contents of the Site Plan:       In addition to the requirements of Section 20.030 above,
     the applicant shall submit a written narrative and site plan addressing the following
     issue:

     1.     Designated area and existing structures to be used for the events

     2.     Number of events anticipated per season

            Frequency of events

            Maximum number of guests intend to serve

            Noise

          . Infrastructure — How will you provide electricity and utilities to the event?

          . Parking & Circulation ~ Need to        provide   one   (10°   x 20’)       parking   space   per
            vehicle; estimate 3 people per car.

          . Traffic and Access

            Environmerital Health Aspects

            a.   How will food be provided? Where will it be served?

            b.   What is your domestic water source?

            c.   Indicate how many portable toilets will be provided,         as well as how         hand-
                 sanitizing or hand-washing facilities will be provided.

            10. Safety & Insurance

            11.Are alcoholic beverages being served? If so, are OLCC                   requirements being
                met?

M. Expiration of Approval: Land use approvals for home occupations to host
   commercial events shail not be valid for more than four years from the original date
     of approval.       Landowners must reapply for the use after a land use approval expires.

                                                             ) 0 G g Q Ad          4
Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
December     16, 2009
                                                                         Page 21-1

                  DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                    CHAPTER 21 LAND DIVISIONS

SECTION   TITLE                                                    PAGE

21.010    PURPOSE                                                  21-1
21.020    DEFINITIONS                                              21-1
21.030    BASIC PROVISIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS                    21-1
21.100    LAND PARTITIONING APPROVAL                               21-8
21.110    AMENDMENTS TO PRELIMINARY PLANS AND                      21-15
          FINAL PLATS OR MAPS
21.115    PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS/REPLATS                        21-16
21.120    PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT/REPLAT APPROVAL                21-16
          STANDARDS
21.125    FINAL PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENT/REPLAT MAP                21-17
          REQUIREMENTS
21.130    SURVEY REQUIREMENTS     FOR PROPERTY LINE                21-17
          ADJUSTMENTS/REPLATS
21.200    PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN APPROVAL                    21-18
21.210    FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL                          21-21
21.300    PRIVATE ROAD APPROVAL AND PUBLIC ROAD OR                21-31
          STREET DEDICATIONS
21.400    IMPROVEMENTS                                            21-34
21.410    PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS                                 21-35
21.420    PRIVATE ROADS                                           21-40
21.430    ROADWAY IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS                            21-42
21.440    ACCESS CONTROL                                          21-43
21.450    PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION                       21-47
21.460    PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT ON VIOLATION                    21-50
21.470    REPEAL AND TRANSFERRAL PROVISIONS                       21-50

                                     ancora *         Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                              December    16, 2009
                                                                                                     Page 21-1

                                 CHAPTER 21         LAND DIVISIONS

As authorized by law, including Oregon Revised Statutes Chapters 92, 197, and 215,
subdivisions, partitions, replats and property line adjustments and streets created for the
purpose of partitioning land shall be approved in accordance with this Chapter. The
Chapter applies to all land within the unincorporated territory of the County. A person
desiring to subdivide land, to partition land, or to create a street or a private road shall
submit preliminary plans and final documents for approval as provided in this Chapter and
State statutes.

SECTION 21.010         Purpose
In accordance with the provisions of O.R.S. Chapters 92, 197, and 215, this Ordinance
sets forth the minimum standards governing the approval of land development, including
subdivisions partition, replats, and property line adjustments as necessary to carry out the
Wasco County Comprehensive Plan and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare. The purpose of these provisions and regulations are to:

A.   Encourage well planned subdivision and partition development to the end that good
     livable neighborhoods with all needed amenities and community facilities may be
     created.

B.   Encourage development in harmony with the natural environment and within resource
     carrying capacities.

C. Safeguard the interest of the public, the applicant, and the future lot owner.

D. Improve land records and boundary monumentation.

E.   Insure   equitable   processing   of    subdivision    plats    and    partitioning       plans,     and
     accomplish to the greatest extent possible             the     goals   and      objectives      of   the
     Comprehensive Plan for Wasco County.

     No person may subdivide or partition land within Wasco County except in accordance
     with O.R.S. Chapter 92 and the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 21.020 Definitions
The definitions set forth in Section        1.090    of this Ordinance      shall    be   utilized for the
purposes of this chapter.

SECTION       21.030   Basic Provisions and Design Standards

A.   Compliance Required: No land within the unincorporated territory of Wasco County
     shall be subdivided or partitioned, and no plat shall be filed or recorded until
     submitted to and approved by the Approving Authority.
                                                           900 90 454               Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                            December 16, 2009
Page 21-2

B. Minimum Standards: The requirements and standards set forth in this chapter are the
   minimum ones to which a subdivision or partition must conform before approval by the
   Approving Authority.

C. Conformity with the Comprehensive Plan: All divisions of land shall conform to and be
   in harmony with the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan and Comprehensive Plan
   Map of that portion of the County within which the subdivision and partition lies.

D. Conformity with Zoning Chapter: All divisions of land, regardless of the number of lots
   or parcels, shall comply with all specifications authorized by Chapter 3 of this
   Ordinance.      lll lots created shall conform in all respects with the applicable
   regulations of Chapter 3, including uses of land, lot size and dimensions, space for
   off-street parking, landscaping and other requirements as may be set forth.

E. Relation to Adjoining Street System:             A subdivision or partition shall provide for the
     continuation of the principal streets existing in the adjoining subdivisions or of their
     proper projection when the adjoining property is not subdivided, and such streets shall
     be of a width not less than the minimum requirements for streets set forth in these
     regulations.      Where the Approving Authority determines that topographic conditions
     make       such   continuation   or   conformity   impractical,   exceptions   may   be   made   as
     provided for in Section 21.450 of this Chapter.

F.   Redevelopment Plan:

     1.     In subdividing or partitioning tracts of land into large lots which at some future time
            could be further divided, the Director may require that blocks and lots shall be of
            such size and shape, be so divided into lots, and meet such building site
            restrictions as will provide for extension and opening of streets at intervals which
            will permit a subsequent division of any parcel into lots of a smaller size which shall
            have the minimum lot frontage on a street.

     2.     No lot in a platted subdivision shall be reduced in size from that shown on the
            recorded plat if the newly created lot will have less than the minimum lot area for
            the zone in which it is located.

     3. Any lot in a platted subdivision may be enlarged to approximate more closely the
            minimum lot area for the zone in which the lot is located, provided that no leftover
            lot areas shall be less than the minimum lot area for the zone.

     4.     Any person dividing tracts of land into large lots which at some future time could be
            further divided and still meet the minimum lot size requirement of the zone in which
            the land is located shall provide suitable road access to each created parcel so
            that the future development of each parcel will provide access for redevelopment
            parcels or lots.

December 16,2008                                                       20090454
                                                                                               Page 21-3

G. Access: A unit of land shall be considered to have access by way of a public road or
   street, private road, or private easement road, if the following criteria are satisfied:

   1.   The unit of land abuts on the road or street.

   2.   There is a legal right appurtenant to the unit of land to use the road or street for
        ingress and egress. A legal right to use a private road or private easement road
        may be evidenced by: (a) an express grant or reservation of an easement in a
        document recorded with the County Clerk; (b) a decree or judgment issued by a
        court of competent jurisdiction; (c) an order of the County Governing Body; or, (d)
        an express easement set forth in a duly recorded plat.

   3. The road or street provides actual physical access for the unit of land.

H. Access Requirements for Land Divisions: —-Each unit of land shall be provided with
   access by a public road meeting standards noted in Table 1 (Rural Public Roadway
   Design Standards) & 2 (Urban Public Roadway Design                        Standards),    except    as
   provided below and in Table 3 (Private Access Standards):

   1.   Private Easement Road - In all zones a unit of land may have access by way of a
        private easement road upon a finding that such road provides access for not more
        than three (3) units of land, serves not more than three (3) units of land, and that
        the easement is a minimum 30’ in width;

        The requirements      of Section     21.300   are not applicable to a Private       Easement
        Road.

        If the private easement road could provide access for more than three (3) units of
        land based on existing zoning, structural setbacks shall be established from the
        potential right of way of the public or private road and not the right of way of the
        private easement road.

   2.   Private Road - In resource areas only (areas zoned F-1, F-2, and A-1), a unit of
        land may have access by way of a private road upon findings of the Approving
        Authority that:

        a.   Such private road provides access for not more than ten (10) units of land and
             serves not more than ten (10) units of land;

        b.   Private road approval is obtained pursuant to Section 21.300;

        c.   Private road   is constructed    to standards of Section       21.420 when     more than
             three (3) units of land use roadway;

        d.   The primary use of the road is to           provide   access    for resource    activities.
             Conflicting uses shall be minimized;

                                                                                 r 21, Land Divisions
                                                           2 0 0 g 0 4 5 4 Chapte December 16, 2009
Page 21-4

            e.   When service to more than ten (10) units of land is possible, provision shall be
                 made to serve the area by public road, including but not limited to: (a)
                 dedication of right-of-way; (b) extension and improvement of the roadway to
                 public road standards such that not more than ten (10) units of land may be
                 served.

            If the private road could provide access for more than ten (10) units of land based
            on existing zoning, structural setbacks shall be established from the potential right
            of way of the public road and not the right of way of the private road.

I.   Alignment: As far as practical, streets other than minor streets shall be in alignment
     with existing streets by continuations of the center lines thereof. Staggered street
     alignment resulting in "T” intersections shall wherever practical leave a minimum
     distance of 200 feet between the center lines of streets having approximately the
     same        direction and otherwise shall not be less than one hundred        twenty-five (125)
     feet.

J.   Half Streets: Half streets, while generally not acceptable, may be approved where
     essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision or partition when in
     conformity with the requirements of this Ordinance and when           possible to require the
     dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever an
     existing half street is adjacent to land to be subdivided, the remaining half of the street
     shail be dedicated within such subdivision. Reserve strips and street plugs may be
     required to insure the objectives of obtaining full width streets.

K. Streets Adjacent to Railroads, Freeways and Parkways:               When a subdivision or
   partition contains or is adjacent to a railroad, a parallel street may be required on each
   side of such railroad. A land strip of not less than twenty-five (25) feet in width shall
     be provided along a railroad right-of-way for screen planting or park purposes between
     the railroad and residential lots. Parallel, local service streets shall be provided on
     each side of a freeway or parkway either within or abutting their right-of-way. When
     such parallel streets are less than eighty (80) feet from such freeway or parkway the
     intervening property shall be used for only park or thoroughfare purposes. Streets
     paralleling railroads, at those cross streets where        grade separations are proposed,
     shall be located at a distance from the railroad that provides for such grade separation
     structure.

L.   Existing Streets:  Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within a tract are of
     inadequate width, additional right-of-way shall be provided at the time of subdivision or
     partitioning.

M. Future         Extension   of Streets:   Where   necessary   to give   access   to or permit    a
     satisfactory future subdivision or partitioning of adjoining land, streets shall be
     extended to the boundary of the subdivision or partition and the resulting dead-end

                                                                    9 0 G 9 0 4 5 4
Chapter 21, Land Divisions
December     16, 2009
                                                                                      Page 21-5

   streets may be approved without a tumaround. Reserve strips and street plugs may
   be required to preserve the objectives of street extensions.

- Alleys: The minimum width of alleys, when provided in residential biocks, shall be
  twenty (20) feet. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts and
   shalt not be less than twenty (20) feet in width.      The comers of all alleys at their
   intersection with streets and other alleys shall be rounded     and have a   radius of not
   less than ten (10) feet.

. Pedestrian Ways:        When desirable for public convenience, pedestrian ways may be
  required to connect to cul-de-sacs or to pass through unusually long or oddly shaped
  blocks.

. Cul-De-Sacs:      In general, dead-end (cul-de-sac) streets are not desirable, but if
  provided, shall terminate in a turnaround that is consistent with Chapter 10 and the
  local fire department.

. Street Intersections:

  1.   All streets shall intersect at right angles (90 degrees) one to the other; where an
       intersection at ninety (90) degrees cannot be secured by reason of physical
       conditions of the site an angular intersection of not less than sixty (60) degrees
       may be permitted.

  2.   Property corners at street intersections shall be rounded and with a radius of not
       less than ten (10) feet.

  3.   Major thoroughfares intersections shali have roadway curb radii of not less than
       twenty-five (25) feet; all other street intersections shall have roadway curb radii of
       not less than twenty (20) feet.

. Reserve Strips:    Reserve strips or street plugs dedicated to the County and controlling
  the access to a street may be approved or required when necessary to:

  1.   Prevent access to the street on a side where additional width is required to meet
       the minimum right-of-way standards;

  2.   Prevent access to abutting property at the end of a street in order to assure the
       proper extension of the street pattem and the orderly development of land lying
       beyond the street; or

 3.    Prevent the uncontrolled development of land.

. Marginal Access Streets:     Where a subdivision or partition abuts or contains an
  existing or proposed arterial street, the Approving Authority may require marginal
  access streets, reverse frontage lots with suitable depth, screen planting contained in

                                                 Q0GI0AE*               crater oie
Page 21-6

     a non-access       reservation along the rear or side property line, or other treatment
     necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
     through and local traffic.

T.   Utility Lines:    Easements for sewers, water mains, electrical lines, or other public
     utilities shall be dedicated whenever necessary.    The easements shall be at least
     twelve (12) feet wide and centered on lot lines where possible, except for utility pole
     tieback easements which may be reduced to six feet in width.

U. Water Courses: if a subdivision or partition is traversed by a water course such as a
   drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or
   drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the water course, and
     such further width as will be adequate for the purpose.       Streets or parkways parallel to
     major water courses may be required.

V. Environmental Hazards:          If a subdivision or partition contains known hazards resulting
     from potential for flooding, land movement, high water tables, erosion, or similar
     natural phenomena, the Approving Authority may require dedication of protective
     easements for uses that would minimize aggravation of the environmental hazard.

W. Blocks:       No block shall exceed twelve hundred (1200) feet in length between streets.
     In blocks over eight hundred (800) feet in length there shall be a cross walkway of not
     less than ten (10) feet in width, near the middle of the block. The width of blocks shall
     be such as to allow two tiers of lots, except where in the opinion of the Approving
     Authority a relatively short length of double frontage lots are unavoidable.

X. Lots:

     1.     Lot size, width, shape and orientation shall be appropriate for the location of the
            subdivision and for the types of use permitted. Lot dimensions shall not include
            part of existing or proposed streets. All lots shall be buildable, except a public
            utility lot. Depth and width of utility lots shall be adequate to provide for standard
            setbacks for service structures, and to furnish off-street parking facilities required
            by the kind of use contemplated. In no other case shall the width or area be less
            than that prescribed for the zone in which the lot is proposed.

     2.     Each side lot line shall be at right angies to the adjacent street line or radial to a
            curved street line, unless the Approving Authority determines that variation from
            these requirements is necessitated by unusual circumstances such as topography
            and site location.

     3.     Lots with double frontage shall be avoided, except where the Approving Authority
            determines that such lots are essential to provide separation or residential
            development from major traffic arterials or adjacent non-residential activities, or to
            overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen
            easement at least ten (10) feet wide, across which there shall be no rights of

seme means                                                          20090451
                                                                                             Page 21-7

          access, may be required along the line of lots abutting such a traffic arterial or
          other incompatible use. Such area shall be considered the rear portion of the lot.

     4.   Flag lots shall not be permitted, except when unusual circumstances exist. Such
          circumstances may include characteristics of topography and site which affect
          construction on the property or access to the property. Approval of the creation of
          flag lots by the Approving Authority shall be based on specific findings indicating
          what unusual circumstances exist.

Y.   Public Open Space:
     Elementary and high school sites, neighborhood       playgrounds,     parks and     recreation
     areas shall be located in accordance to the development pattern of the County or the
     County area. When such public school or recreation sites are within the area of an
     approved subdivision they may be dedicated to the County or shall be reserved until
     such time as the County is able to acquire them. Parks and recreation areas shall be
     provided at the rate of one (1) acre of recreation area to every one hundred people.

Z.   Subdivision Name: The name of any subdivision shall not duplicate or be so similar
     as to be confused with the name of any existing subdivision or parcel or area within
     the County.

AA.Street Names:      Except for extensions of existing streets, no street name shall be used
     which will duplicate or be confused with the names of existing streets.        Street names
     and numbers shall conform to the established pattern in the surrounding area and, if
     near a city, to the pattern in the city, and shall be subject to the approval of the
     Approving Authority.

BB.Sreet Signs:      All street and highway signs shall meet the County standards for such
   signs.

                                                      9, ¢) G 9 0 4 3) 4    Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                    December 16, 2009
Page 21-8

SECTION 21.100            Land Partitioning Approval

A. Approval of Preliminary Partition Plans:

     1.     An application for preliminary partition plan approval shall be initiated as provided
            in Section 2.060.A. of this Ordinance.

    2.      A preliminary partition application, plan and supporting documentation shall include
            the following:

            a. A vicinity map        of such    scale to clearly locate the proposed           partitioning in
               relation to adjacent subdivisions, partitions, roadways and other land parcels;

               North point, scale and date;

               A plan of the proposed partitioning, showing boundaries of the total contiguous
               ownership, boundaries of each proposed tract, the number assigned to each
               tract, acreage of each tract and location and name of existing and proposed
               roads;

               Private streets and all restrictions or reservations relating to private streets;

               Name and address of the landowners, the applicant and the surveyor, if any,
               employed to make necessary surveys and prepare the description of each tract
               involved;

               Proposed      means      and location of water supply and sewage disposal for each
               tract;

               Zoning classification of the land and Comprehensive Plan map designation;

               Predominant natural features, such as water courses and their flows, marshes,
               rock     outcroppings,     and   areas   subject   to   flooding,   sliding   or other   natural
               hazards;

               Any existing permanent structures;

               Draft of proposed restrictions and covenants affecting the partitioned land;

             . Legal description of the property being partitioned;

               If not sewered and located in an “F-1", "F-2", or "A-1" zone, a statement signed
               by an authorized         representative of the Department of Environmental               Quality,
               State of Oregon, or County Sanitarian regarding the suitability of each parcel to
               be partitioned for subsurface sewage disposal; or a signed statement shown on
               the face of the final partition plan that no investigation has been made of the
hepter   24, Land Divs
December 16,2008                                                            20090451
                                                                                                     Page 21-9

             suitability   of   any   given   parcel    by   an   authorized   representative        of   the
             Department of Environmental Quality, and that no warranty is made that any
             parcel will be usable for subsurface sewage disposal;

        m. If not sewered and located in an F-F or any other non-resource zone, a
           statement signed by an authorized representative of the Department of
           Environmental Quality approving each parcel to be partitioned for subsurface
           sewage disposal; or a statement signed by the County Sanitarian or an officer
           of a public sewer district or corporation warranting the availability of sewer
            hook-ups for each parcel to be partitioned.
   3.   Standards for approval of a preliminary partition plan.

        a.   A decision on a preliminary partition plan application shall be made                    by the
             Approving Authority as provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

        b. The preliminary partition plan shall be approved if the Approving Authonty finds
             that the information required by this subsection has been provided and if the
             design and development standards of Section 21.030 of this chapter have
             been met.

   4.   The Approving Authority may require dedication or reservation of land and utility or
        drainage easements; and may impose conditions promoting redevelopment of the
        parcels if, in view of the zoning and comprehensive plan map designation, the
        acreage of a parcel or parcels in contiguous ownership make additional partitioning
        of the subject property feasible.

   5.   Duration of approval for preliminary partition plan:      Approval of a preliminary
        partition plan shall be valid for twenty-four (24) months from the date of tentative
        approval. During such time, all conditions of approval shall be met and required
        documentation shall be filed with the Director as an application for final approval,
        and shall otherwise comply with the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of this
        section.

B. Approval of Final Partition Plat:

   1.   Within twenty-four (24) months from the date of preliminary partition approval, the
        applicant shall initiate a request for final partition plat approval by filing with the
        Director a final plat prepared in accordance to those standards specified in Section
        21.100 of this Chapter.

   2.   The approval of a final partition map           by the Director is a ministerial action.          The
        Director shall grant final approval if he determines that:

        a. the final plat and any supporting documents are in substantial conformance
             with the approved preliminary partition pian;

                                                       29 0 C 9 0 4 +) 4          Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                          December    16, 2009
Page 21-10

          b. any conditions imposed by the Approving Authority have been met;

          Substantial conformance means that any differences between the preliminary and
          final plans are "minor amendments", as defined in Section 21.110(1} of this
          Ordinance.

     3.   All access easements created as part of land partitioning become effective when
          the plat is recorded by the County Clerk. If an access easement is pre-existing or
          if the access easement has been recorded with the County Clerk prior to the final
          approval of the land partition, then the recorded Document Number shall appear
          on the face of the plat.

     4.   The granting of final plat approval shail not be affected by a change in the zone or
          plan map designation of the subject property made after approval of the
          preliminary partition plat.

     5. After approval of the final partition plat, the Director and the County Surveyor shall
        endorse their approval on the original plat. The original plat shall be recorded with
          the County Clerk and a copy with the County Surveyor's Office.

     6.   Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute (O.R.S) 92.055(1) a parcel larger than ten
          (10) acres is not required to be surveyed and monumented but shall comply with
          the following:

          a.   The approximate acreage of each unsurveyed parcel shall be shown.

          b. Any unsurveyed parcel shall have the word “unsurveyed” placed in bold letters
             adjacent to the parcel number on the plat at provided in (5) above.

          c.   Unsurveyed parcels need not comply with O.R.S. 92.050(5), (7) and (8).

     7.   Pursuant   to O.R.S.   92.095,   prior to recordation   of the final partition   map,   the
          current years’ taxes must be paid in full.    (The tax year runs from July 1° through
          June 30").

     8.   if the property is zoned “A-1” Exclusive Farm Use, a statement shall appear on the
          face of the partition plat stating that the land division is for commercial farm use.

C.   Final Land Partition Plat Requirements:

     1. Conformance to Preliminary plan.          The   plat shall substantially conform to the
        preliminary plan as approved.

     2.   Preparation of the Plat.

          a. A plat shall be prepared      on 4 mill (minimum)      double   matte polyester film,

December 16,2009                                                   20090454
                                                                                                 Page 21-11

       approved by the County Surveyor, on a standard 18” x 24” sheet, with archival
       permanent black ink, in a format available at the Wasco County Surveyors
       Office.

  b. All signatures on the original must be in archival quality black ink.

  c.   The lettering shall be a size or type to be clearly legible when copies are made.

  d. A face sheet and index must be included for a plat with 3 or more sheets.

. Compliance with ORS 209.250.              A plat shall comply with all requirements of ORS
  209.250 including:

  a.   Narrative

  b.   Location of the survey by one-fourth section, Township and Range.

       Date of the survey.

       Scale and North Arrow.            The plat shall be drawn to a standard engineering
       scale sufficient to depict the change, approved by the County Surveyor.

       The distance and course of all lines traces or established, giving the basis of
       bearing.

       Measured    bearings      and     distances     used     as   a   basis   for   establishing      or
       reestablishing lines or monuments separately indicated from those of record.

       Monuments     set   and   their    relation   to older    monuments       found.      A   detailed
       description of monuments found and set shall be included and all monuments
       set shall be separately indicated from those found.

       The surveyor’s seal and original signature.

       The surveyor's business name and address.

. Compliance with 92.050. A person shall not submit a plat of a partition for record
  until all the requirements of ORS 209.250 and the plat requirements of the partition
  have been met.

  a.   The survey for the plat shall be done in a manner to achieve sufficient accuracy
       that measurements may be taken between monuments within one-tenth of a
       foot or one ten-thousandth of the distance shown on the plat, whichever is
       greater.

                                               2 0 C 9 0 4 i) 4                  Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                         December 16, 2009
Page 21-12

         b.   The plat shall be made by professional land surveyor.

         c.   The plat shall be of sufficient scale and lettering size, approved by the County
              Surveyor, so that:

              (1) The survey and mathematical information and all other details are clearly
                    and legibly shown on the plat.

              (2) Each lot or parcel is numbered consecutively.

              (3) The lengths and courses of the boundaries of each lot or parcel are shown
                    on the plat.

              (4) Each street is named and shown on the plat.

         d.   The locations and descriptions of all monuments found or set must be carefully
              recorded upon the plat and the proper courses and distances of all boundary
              lines, conforming to the Surveyor’s Certificate, must be show.

         e. The location, dimensions and purpose of ail recorded and proposed public and
            private easements must be shown on the plat along with the County Clerk’s
            recording reference if the easement has been recorded with the County Clerk.
              Private easements become effective upon the recording of the plat.

         f.   The area of each lot or parcel must be shown on the plat, to the nearest one-
              hundredth of an acre.

         g.   In addition to showing bearings in degrees, minutes and seconds, and
              distances in feet and hundredths of a foot, the following curve information must
              be shown on the plat:

              (1) Arc length

              (2) Chord length

              (3) Chord bearing

              (4) Radius

              (5) Central Angle

         h.   The final plat may not be required to show any information or requirement that
              is or may be subject to administrative change or variance by the county, or any
              other information unless authorized by the County Surveyor.       Examples of
              authorized information include:

Chapter 21, Land Divisions                                              9     ’       a
December 16, 2009                                                       aed 0 C 9 C a .   4
                                                                                          Page 21-13

          (1) Parcels located in an “A-1”, “F-1" or “F-2” zone shall contain the following
             statement”    “No investigation has been made of the suitability of any given
             parcel by an authorized representative of the Department of Environmental
             Quality, and no warranty is made that any given parcel will be used for
             subsurface sewage disposal.     If subsurface sewage disposal evaluations
             have been completed, a copy shall be filed with the Wasco County
             Planning Department.

          (2) Parcels located in any other zone shall contain the following statement:
              “The parcels have been approved for subsurface sewage disposal by an
             authorized   representative   of the   Oregon   Department     of Environmental
             Quality.”

          (3) Planning Department File Number

          (4) Tax lot Information

          (5) Zoning classification and Comprehensive Plan Designation

          (6) Table indicating the acreages of all existing and newly created parcels.

          (7) Assessor Account Number for each existing property.

5.   Monuments.

     a.   The Initial Point of a plat must be on the exterior boundary of the plat and must
          be marked with a monument meeting the specifications of ORS 92.060(1).
          The location of the monument shall be with reference by survey to a known
          comer, per ORS 92.060 and shown on the plat.

     b. The exterior boundary and all parcel corners must be monumented                 per ORS
        92.060.

     c.   For partitions involving land in a flood plain, the provisions of Section 21.210(5)
          shall apply.

6.   Surveyors Certificate. The plat must include a Surveyors Certificate, together with
     the seal and signature of the surveyor of record, to the effect that the surveyor has
     correctly surveyed and marked with proper monument the lands represented,
     including the initial point of the plat and its location, and accurately describing by
     metes and bounds, or other description as approved by the County Surveyor, the
     tract of land upon which the parcels are laid out.

6.   Declaration.

     a. The plat shall include a declaration, taken before a notary public, stating that
                                                                          Chapter 21, Land Divisions

                                                 906 9045        4                December16, 2009
Page 21-14

             the declarant has caused       the   plat to be   prepared   in accordance   with the
             provisions of ORS 92.

              Any dedication of land to public purposes or any public or private easements
              create, or any other restrictions made, shall be included in the Declaration.

              If the declarant is not the fee owner of the property, the fee owner and the
              vendor under any instrument of sale shall also execute the Declaration for the
              purpose of consenting to the property being partitioned.

              If the plat contains any dedication or donation of land to public purposes, the
              holder of any mortgage or trust deed shall also execute the Declaration

              Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection a. to d., the fee owner, vendor or
              the mortgage trust deed holder may record an affidavit consenting to the
              declaration, pursuant to ORS 92.075(4).

    8.   General Information.     No plat shall be approved unless:

              Streets or Road for public use are dedicated without reservation or restriction
              other than reversionary rights upon vacation.

             All easements provided for public services, utilities, or access are shown on the
             face of the plat along with the legal description and any limitations of the
             easements. If it is a pre-existing easement or if the easement has been filed
             with the County Clerk prior to the final approval of the land partition, then the
             Recorders number shall appear on the face of the plat.

              Names      and addresses of the partitioner, owner, mortgagee,      if any, and the
              person preparing the plat are shown.

              The names of any streets intersecting or within the parcels are shown.

              Ail easements provided for public services, utilities, or access must be shown
              on the face of the map along with the legal description and any limitations of
             the easements.     If it is a pre-existing easement or if the easement has been
             filed with the County Clerk prior to the final approval of the land partition, then
             the Recorder's number shall appear on the face of the map.

              Zoning classification and Comprehensive Plan Designation

              Space for date and signatures of the following officials is made:

              (1) Planning Director or designee

              (2) County Surveyor
Chapter 21, Land Divisions                                          9 6 a 9 0 4 5 4
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                      Page 21-15

               (3) County Assessor

               (4) County Tax Collector

          h.   Any additional information made a condition of approval of the tentative plan is
               shown.

     9.   County Surveyor Fees: The partitioner shall pay a fee to the County Surveyor as
          provided in O.R.S. 92.100{2) which is included in the cost at the time of the plat
          application.

SECTION 21.110           Amendments to Preliminary Plans and Final Plats or Maps

A.   Definitions:

      1. "Minor Amendment" means a change which:

          a.   Does not change the number of parcels created by the subdivision or partition;

          b.   Does not enlarge the boundaries of subdivided or partitioned area;

          c.   Does not change the general location or amount of land devoted to a specific
               land use; or

          d.   Includes only minor shifting of the established lines, location of buildings,
               proposed public or private streets, pedestrian ways, utility easements, parks or
               other public open spaces.

     2.   “Major Amendment" means any change which is not a minor amendment.

B. Approval of Minor Amendments:        A minor amendment to an approved preliminary
   subdivision or partition plan or to an approved final subdivision plat or final partition
   map may be approved by the Director.

C. Approval of Major Amendments:        Approval of a major amendment to an approved
   preliminary subdivision or partition preliminary plan or to an approved final
   subdivision plat or final partition plat shall be subject to the provisions of Section
     2.060 of this Ordinance.

                                                      2   0   C   9   0   4   a   4   Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                              December 16, 2009
Page 21-16

SECTION 21.115           Property Line Adjustments/Replats
The decision on a request for a Property Line Adjustment or Partition                           Replat shall be
initiated as provided in Section 2.060.A. of this Ordinance.

A. Preliminary      property line adjustment/replat map shall meet the same                          standards
      required for preliminary partition approval, described in Section 21.100.A.

     . The applicant(s) shall submit a signed             statement    explaining    the    purpose      of the
       proposed property line adjustment.

      The    applicant(s)      shall   submit   a copy   of the   property   deed.         No     property   line
      adjustment may be approved unless all properties involved were lawfully created.

SECTION 21.120 Property Line Adjustment/Replat Approval Standards
The request for a property line adjustment or replat shall be approved by the Director if
the following criteria are met;

A.    The proposed property line adjustment/repiat will not result in the creation of any new
      tax lot.

      The proposal will not render any property unusable, nor shail the usefulness, utility or
      viability of the property be reduced from the designated purpose statement of the
      zoning district in which the property is located.

      Property which presently conforms to the lot size requirements of the zoning district in
      which it is located shall not become           nonconforming as a result of the property line
      adjustment/replat.

      Property line adjustments/replats shall result in greater conformity where it can be
      achieved. Property line adjustments/replats to nonconforming property shall not result
      in greater nonconformity, provided however, the Director may approve a reduction in
      area which will result in greater nonconformity if the Director finds the proposal will
      benefit the public interest.

      Adjusted property lines may cross zoning district boundaries unless the adjustment
      will increase the number of parcels or lots which could potentially be created, based
      on the density requirements of the applicable zoning district.

      The proposal will not cause any existing development to be placed in violation of the
      property development standards of the zone, or force a violation of this ordinance.

      Proposed      property     line adjustments/replats   which     have the net result of physically
      relocating a parcel to a new location beyond an existing common                      boundary line or
      which requires the creation of a private or public road will not be acted on, and must
      be reviewed under Section 21.100 of the Wasco County Land Use and Development
Chapter 21, Land Divisions
December 16, 2009                                                            20090451
                                                                                        Page 21-17

     Ordinance.

SECTION 21.125     Final Property Line Adjustment/Replat Map Requirements
All final property line adjustment/replat map(s) shall meet the same standards required
for final partition approval described in Section 21.100.C., Final Land Partition Map
Requirements.

SECTION 21.130      Survey Requirements for Property Line Adjustments/Replats

A. An adjusted property line created by the relocation of a common boundary as
   described in ORS 92.010 (7)(b) shall be surveyed and monumented in accordance
   with ORS 92.060 (3). Said survey shall comply with ORS 209.250, and shall be filed
   with the Wasco County Clerk. If all property affected by the property line adjustment
   is greater or becomes greater than ten (10) acres the requirement of a survey and
     monumentation will be waived.

B.   Replats shall be reviewed in the same manner as property line adjustment requests,
     with the exception that the requirements of ORS 92.180 - 92.190 shall apply.

                                              20690451                  Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                December 16, 2009
Page 2 1-18

SECTION 21.200           Preliminary Subdivision Plan Approval
The approval of a preliminary subdivision plan is reviewed by the Planning Commission
subject to the provisions of Section 2.060 (c) of this Ordinance.

A.   Application for Preliminary Subdivision Plan Approval:

     1. An     application for preliminary subdivision      plan   approval   shall    be    initiated   as
           provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

          The applicant shall file with the Director a preliminary subdivision plan, together
          with improvement plans and other supplementary information required by
          subsection (B) of this Section to demonstrate the design and objectives of the
          subdivision.

           The preliminary plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn.       It shall show all required
           information to scale so that the Approving Authority may have an adequate
           understanding of what is proposed.    Under ordinary circumstances, the scale of
           the drawing is to be one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, or one (1) inch
           equals fifty (50) feet.

B.   Information Required in the Preliminary Subdivision Plan:

         . The proposed name of the subdivision or major partition.
     _

           North point, scale, date of application, and basis of bearing.

           Names and addresses       of the   subdivider,   engineer,   surveyor,     land   planner     or
           landscape architect.

           The tract description according to the real estate records of Wasco County.

           The boundary lines (accurate in scale) of the tract to be subdivided.

           Contour lines may be required at intervals to be determined by the Director.

           The names of adjacent subdivisions or the names of recorded owners of adjoining
           parcels of unsubdivided land.

           The location, width and names of all existing or plotted streets or other public ways
           within or adjacent to the tract, existing permanent buildings, railroad rights-of-way
           and other important features such as section lines, political subdivisions or
           corporation lines and school district boundaries.

           Existirig sewers, water mairis, culverts or underground utilities and improvements
           within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto together with pipe sizes, grades
           and locations indicated.

Chapter 21, Land Divisions
December 16, 2009                                                  90090451
                                                                                                 Page 21-19

10. Ail parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or reserved in the deeds
    for the use of all property owners in the proposed subdivision, together with the
   purpose of conditions or limitations of such reservation, if any.

11. The location, names, width and approximate grades of all streets proposed or
    existing in the subdivision, and the approximate widths and locations of proposed
   easements for drainage, sewerage and public utilities.

12. Typical cross-sections       of proposed       streets, showing    all improvements        proposed
   within the street right-of-way at such scale to clearly show the details thereof.

13. Approximate location of all areas subject to inundation or storm water overflow and
    the location, width and direction of flow of all watercourses.

14. Proposed lots, approximate lot dimensions, and lot numbers. Where lots are to be
    used for purposes other than residential, it shall be indicated upon such lots.

15. Parks, playgrounds,       recreation areas, parkways, and other open space for public
   use.

16.Locations of proposed tree plantings or other plantings.                  Appropriate information
   clearly stating the map is a tentative plan.

17.Proposed       source    of water     supply,   if any;    estimated   volume      to be available,
   together with data regarding the location, type, and size of all storage facilities,
   distribution lines, fire hydrants, and gate valves.

18.If domestic water supply proposed by the developer includes the drilling of wells,
    information on the feasibility of well drilling. Such information wilt be provided even
   if the developer is not required by the Commission to drill the wells.

19. The proposed method of sewage disposal.

   a.     If to be served by a community sewer system, data regarding the location, type,
          size, approximate grade, and capacity of all collection lines, feeder lines, trunk
          lines, pumping stations, storage facilities, backflow prevention devices, and
          gate valves. If treatment is to be accomplished by an existing municipal or
          public sewage facility, a statement regarding the ability of the facility to
          accommodate the projected increased load. If treatment is to be accomplished
          by a new installation or privately owned treatment facility, a statement regarding
          conformity   to   applicable    regulations    of   the   Oregon    State    Department        of
          Environmental Quality.

   b.     If to be served by a community collection and storage system, data regarding
          the location, type, size, approximate grade, and capacity of all lines, holding
                                                                                 Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                             90090451                    December16, 2009
Page 21-20

               tanks, storage facilities, pumping facilities, and valves.

          c.   If to be served by subsurface sewage disposal, a statement from an authorized
               representative of the Department of Environmental Quality, State of Oregon, or
               the County Sanitarian regarding the approval of each lot or parcel to be sold for
               installation of septic tank facilities.

     20.Information on the source of other public utilities; proposed deed               restrictions, if
          any; and the irrigation district involved and provisions for delivering irrigation water
          to the lots in the subdivision.

     21. The location of any environmental hazard; area unsuitable for building purposes;
         or land subject to mass movement, excessive erosion, or similar natural
          phenomena.

     22. Proposed building setback lines.

     23. Vicinity sketch showing how the proposed streets and alleys may                     connect with
         existing streets in neighboring subdivisions or undeveloped property.

C.   Development Phasing:

     1. A preliminary subdivision plan may provide for platting in as many as three (3)
        phases. The preliminary plan must show each phase and be accompanied by
        proposed time limitations for approval of the final plat for each phase.

     2.   Time limitations for the various phases must meet the following requirements:

          a.   Phase 1       final plat shall be approved within twelve (12) months of preliminary
               approval.

          b.   Phase 2 final plat shall        be   approved   within   twenty-four   (24)     months   of
               preliminary approval.

          c.   Phase 3 final plat shall be approved within thirty-six (36) months of preliminary
               approval.

D. Criteria for Approval of Preliminary Subdivision Plan:

     1. A decision on the preliminary subdivision plan application shall be made by the
          Approving Authority as provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

     2.   The preliminary subdivision plan shall be approved if the Approving Authority finds
          the following:

          a. The information required by this Chapter has been provided;
Chapter 21, Land Divisions                                       9 0 G g 0 4 5 4
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                                 Page 21-21

          b.    The design and development standards of Section 21.030 of this Chapter have
                been met; and

          c.    If the preliminary plan provides for development                    in more than one phase, the
                Approving Authority makes findings and conclusions that such phasing is
                necessary due to the nature of the development, and that the applicant will be
                able to comply with the proposed time limitations.

E.   Duration of Preliminary Subdivision Plan Approval:

     1. Approval         of a preliminary         subdivision     plan    shall    be valid for twenty-four (24)
          months from the date of approval of the preliminary plan, provided that if the
          approved preliminary plan provides for phased development, the approval shall be
          valid for the time specified for each phase, subject to the limitations of Section
          21.200(CX2) of this Ordinance.

     2.   If any time limitation is exceeded, approval of the preliminary subdivision plan, and
          any subsequent phases, shall be void. Any subsequent proposal by the applicant
          for division of the property shail require a new development request.

F, Granting of Extensions:                   Extensions of time may be allowed as outlined in Section
   2.125.B.

SECTION 21.210 Final Subdivision Plat Approval
Approval of a final subdivision plat is reviewed by the Pianning Commission and subject
to the provision of Section 2.060(2) of this Ordinance.

A. Application for Final Subdivision Approval:

     1.   Before     expiration       of the     validity   of the    preliminary         subdivision   plan     approval
          obtained pursuant to Section 21.200 of this Ordinance, the applicant shall cause
          an Oregon licensed land surveyor to survey the subdivision and to prepare a                                 final
          plat, in conformance with the approved preliminary plan.

     2.   The applicant shall initiate a request for final plat approval by filing with the Director
          a final plat, an exact reproducible copy, other supporting documents as described
          in subsections (B) to (F) of this Section, and the appropriate fees as established by
          the County Goveming Body.

B.   Einal Subdivision Plat Requirements:

     1.   The    final   plat shall     be     prepared     in conformance         with all provisions         of Section
          21.210.

                                                                                      ,          Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                               Are                       December 16, 2009
                                                                              om
                                                                         co
                                                                on)
                                                                 +
Page 21-22

    2.   Prior to submission for final approval, the final subdivision plat shall be signed by
         all persons who own land in the subdivision and the mortgagees, or by their
         authorized representatives or any title-holder. The plat shall bear the signature
         and seal of the licensed land surveyor responsible for its preparation and
         certification that the plat has been correctly surveyed and properly monumented.
         All signatures must be with black ink.

C. Information Required in the Final Subdivision Plat:           The following information shall be
    included on the final plat or in the supporting documents, and the plat shall otherwise
    comply with O.R.S. 209.250:

    1.   Name of Subdivision.

    2.   North point, scale and date the plat was prepared.

         Legal description of the subdivision boundaries, area of the subdivision in acres,
         and the location of the subdivision by one-fourth section and Donation Land Claim,
         Township and Range.

         Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner, mortgagee, if any, and the person
         Preparing the plat.

         Subdivision         block and lot boundary lines and street right-of-way and center lines
         with dimensions to the nearest 1/100th of a foot, bearings or deflection angles,
         radii, arcs, points of curvature, chord bearings and distances, and tangent
         bearings.   Subdivision boundaries, lot boundaries, and street bearings shall be
         shown to the nearest thirty (30) seconds with basis of bearings.

         Names and width of the portion of streets being dedicated, the width of any
         existing right-of-way, and the width on each side of the center line. For streets on
         curvature, curve data shall be based on the street center line. In addition to the
         center line dimensions, the radius and central angle shall be indicated.

         Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified and, if already of record,
         their recorded reference. If an easement is not of record, a certified copy of the
         easement shall be provided. The width of the easement, its length and bearing,
         and sufficient ties to locate the easement with respect to the subdivision must be
         shown.     If the easement is being dedicated by the map, it shall be properly
         referenced in the owner's declaration.

         Locations and widths of drainage channels, railroad rights-of-way, reserve strips at
         the end of stubbed streets or along the edge of partial width streets on the
         boundary of the subdivision.

         Numbering of blocks and lots, as follows:

Chapter 21, Land Divisions                                     9 4] C 9 0 4 5 4
December 16, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 21-23

   a.        Block numbers beginning with the number "1" and continuing consecutively
             without omission or duplication throughout the subdivision. The numbers shall
             be solid, of sufficient size and thickness to stand out and so placed as not to
             obliterate any figure or lot numbers.     In an addition to a subdivision of the same
             name,   numbers     shall   be   a continuation     of the    numbering    in the    original
             subdivision.

        b.     Lot numbers     beginning with the number "1" and numbered              consecutively in
              each block.

10. Ties to any city, county, or adjacent subdivision boundary lines.

11. Zoning classification of the property within the subdivision.

12. The course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing and the
   distance and course to a section comer,               one-sixteenth corer or Donation Land
   Claim corner in Township and Range.

13. Space for date and signature of the County officials specified in subsection (K.) of
    this Section.

14.Any conditions           specified    by the Approving      Authority   upon   granting   preliminary
   approval.

15.A copy of the covenants, if any, that will be placed on the subdivision, including the
    volume and page(s) of recording with Wasco County.

16.A copy of all documents relating to establishment and maintenance of private
   facilities, common areas and easements, including the volume and page(s) of
   recording with Wasco County.

17.A copy of all documents relating to additional requirements or restrictions required
    by the County as a condition of approval.

18.A declaration and acknowledged by all parties having any record title interest in the
    land consenting to the preparation and recording of the plat.

19.A     declaration signed        and    acknowledged      by ail parties having      any record title
   interest in the land dedicating all land intended for public use and common
   improvements, including but not limited to streets, roads, parks, sewage disposal
   and water supply systems the donation of which was made a condition of the
   approval of the tentative plan.

20.A narrative per O.R.S. 209.250(2).

21.All subdivisions outside the boundaries of an irrigation district, drainage district,

                                                         DOCIOAE*                 rarer anger noose
Page 21-24

         water control district, or district improvement company must file a statement of
         water rights. If a water right is appurtenant to the lands of the subdivision, the
         statement of water nght and a copy of the subdivision plan must be submitted to
         the Oregon          Water Resources       Department.     A copy of the acknowledgment from
         the Water Resources Department must be submitted with the final subdivision plat.

D. Survey Requirements for Final Plat:

    1.   Format.      The plats shall be drawn with an archival quality black permanent ink,
         approved       by the      County    Surveyor,    on   4 mil (minimum)   thick polyester       based
         transparent drafting film, or an equivalent, matted on both sides, eighteen inches
         by twenty-four inches (18"x24") in size. The quality of said drafting film and any
         other drafting particulars will be subject to the County Surveyor's approval. No
         diazo process may be used.

    2.   Scale.     The plat shall be drawn to a standard engineering scale sufficient to depict
         the subdivision of land approved by the County Surveyor.

    3.   Survey Accuracy.            The     survey for the plat shall be done     in such a manner           to
         achieve       sufficient       accuracy    that   measurements     may     be      taken     between
         monuments within one-tenth of a foot or one ten-thousandth of the distance shown
         on the plat, whichever is greater.

    4.   Measurements.           The subdivision plat shall contain the following measurements:

         a.   The boundary lines with distance and bearing of the exact location and width of
              existing or recorded streets intersecting the boundary.

         b.   The arc, length, chord length, chord bearing, radii, central angles, of curves.

         c.   Block indications, lot numbers and lot lines with dimensions                        in feet   and
              hundredths and bearings and angles to street and alley lines.

         d.   The    area     of each      lot in either acres, to the nearest    1/100th    of an acre,      or
              square feet.

         e.   All measured bearings or angles and distances separately indicated from those
              of record.

         f.   All monuments          set and their relation to older monuments           found.     A detailed
              description of monuments found and set shall be included and all monuments
              set shall be separately indicated from those found.

              Any additional information shall be typed or printed in narrative form.

Chapter 21, Land Divisions                                              2 0 fi 9 0 4 5 4
December 16, 2009
                                                                                     Page 21-25

5.   Monuments. The subdivision plat shall contain the location, material, and size of
     all monuments which have been set. A monument shall be set at each of the
     following locations.

     a. The Initial Point, which must be on the exterior boundary of the plat and must
        be marked with a monument meeting the specifications of ORS 92.060(1).
          The location of the monument        shall be with reference by survey to a known
          comer per ORS 92.060.

     b.   The exterior boundary including every angle point or curve point along the
          boundary lines.  Any exceptions shall be allowed only with approval of the
          County Surveyor.        All monuments for the exterior boundaries of a subdivision
          shall be set and referenced on the piat before the plat is offered for approval.

     c. All lot corners, except lot comers of a cemetery. All monuments for the interior
        boundaries of a subdivision shall be set and referenced on the plat before the
        plat is offered for approval, unless the surveyor certifies the remaining
        monuments will be set. If the interior monuments are not set prior to the
          approval of the plat:

          (1) The   person   performing the survey work shail, by affidavit, certify that the
             interior monuments will be set by a date specified by him, such a date not
             exceeding one year from the date of submission of the plat for approval.
             The County Surveyor may extend the one year period and such extension
             shall be in writing. The County Surveyor shall submit a written copy of the
             extension to the Director.

          (2) The subdivider shall fumish to the Wasco County Surveyor's Office a bond
              or cash deposit, at the option of the Wasco County Surveyor's Office in the
             amount equal to not more than 120 percent of the County Surveyor's
             estimate of the cost to perform the work for the interior monumentation.

          (3) Space will be provided on the face of the plat for endorsement of the
              recording reference to the plat copy to be filed upon completion of such
              interior monumentation.

          (4) Upon compietion of the interior monumentation, the person performing the
             survey shall indicate upon a copy of the plat that monumentation has been
             completed.

          (5) The County Surveyor shall check the interior monumentation, and, if the
              conditions required on the tentative plan have been complied with, he shall
              so certify on the plat copy and file it with the County Clerk.

          (6) The County Clerk shall file the plat copy and reference the filing number on
             the original plat.     The County Clerk shall advise the County Surveyor of

                                                      QOC90AS1 creat Laneriion
Page 21-26

                   such number for notation on the plat previously filed with him.

         d.   Flood Plain Monumentation for Subdivisions and Partitions.

              For subdivisions and partitions         involving     land     in a flood   plain, the following
              specifications shall apply:

              (1) A standard Bench Mark shall be a minimum of thirty-six inches (36") in
                 depth and eight inches (8") in diameter, constructed of concrete with a
                 brass cap set in the center. The brass cap shall bear the name of the
                   Bench     Mark, the year set and the agency or Registered                   Land Surveyor's
                  license number. The Bench Mark shall be set at least thirty inches (30") in
                  the ground in a stable, protected area of the partition or subdivision. The
                   elevation established shall be 3rd order or higher.

              (2) The Bench Mark location shail be indicated on the face of the Plat or Final
                  Survey Map along with its name and elevation and the name, year, and
                  elevation of the Bench Mark upon which the elevation is based.

              (3) The level notes or a copy thereof shail be filed with the final map.

                  Any exceptions      shall   be   allowed   only     with    the   approval    of the   County
                  Surveyor.

              (4) Field notes and closure copies to County Surveyor:

                   (a) Copies of all lot closures, block closures and plat closures of the
                       subdivision shall be furnished to the County Surveyor upon his request.

                   (b) If the interior monuments are not set prior to the approval of the plat, the
                       field notes or legible copies for the original survey of the subdivision
                       shall be furnished to the County Surveyor upon his request.

    6.   Surveyors Certificate. The plat must include a Surveyor’s Certificate, together with
         the seal and signature of the surveyor of record, to the effect that the surveyor has
         correctly surveyed and marked with proper monument the lands represented,
         including the initial point of the plat and its location, and accurately describing by
         metes or bounds, or other description as approved                    by the County Surveyor, the
         tract of land upon which the parcels are laid out.

    7.   Declaration

         a.   The plat shall include a declaration, taken before a notary public, stating that
              the declarant has caused the plat to be prepared in accordance with the
              provisions of ORS 92.                                              4
Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                               99¢9045
December 16, 2009
                                                                                           Page 21-27

       Any dedication of land to public purposes or any public or private easements
       created, or any other restrictions made, shall be included in the Declaration.

       if the declarant is not the fee owner of the property, the fee owner and the
       vendor under any instrument of sale shall also execute the Declaration for the
       purpose of consenting to the property being partitioned.

       If the plat contains any dedication or donation of land to public purposes, the
       holder of any mortgage or trust deed shall also execute the Declaration.

       Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections a. to d., the fee owner, vendor or
       the mortgage   or trust deed       holder may   record an affidavit consenting to the
       declaration, pursuant to ORS 92.075 (4).

. Supplemental Information with Final Plat: The following data shall accompany the
  final plat, if requested by the Director or County Surveyor:

       A preliminary title report issued by a title insurance company in the name of the
       owner of the land, showing         all parties whose    consent is necessary and their
       interest in the premises.

       Sheets and drawings showing the following:

       (1) Traverse data including the coordinates of the boundary of the subdivision
          and ties to section comers and donation             land claim comers, and showing
          the error of closure, if any.

       (2) The computation of all distances, angles, and courses shown on the final
           map.

       (3) Ties to existing monuments,        proposed   monuments,      adjacent     subdivision,
           street comers, and state highway stationing.

  c.   A copy of any dedication requiring separate documents.

  d. A Plan and Profile on Federal Aid sheets showing the following:

       (1) Widths of the proposed dedication throughout the length of the proposal.

       (2) Centerline alignment showing P.C. and P.T.               stationing   on   all curves,
           necessary curve data and bearings of tangents.

       (3) Ground line and grade line profile on the centerline of the proposed street
           or road.

                                               20090451                    Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                   December 16, 2009
Page 21-28

              (4) Vertical curve data showing P.I. elevations and stations, length of vertical
                    curve and tangent grades.

              (5) Proposed drainage structures, showing both size and type of structure.

              (6) Earthwork distribution, i.e., volume of cuts and fills shown                 in appropriate
                  haul distribution brackets.

              (7) Provisions for waste or borrow areas if widened cuts or fills do not provide
                  the desired balance of material.

              (8) Toe of slope and top of cut lines showing the limits of the construction area
                    within the dedication.

              (9) Typical section of roadbed to be constructed.

              (10)Sections       lines, fractional section lines and/or Donation         Land    Claim    lines
                    tied to corner from which dedication description is prepared.

              (11)Vicinity map         in the upper left hand comer of the first plan sheet showing
                    roughly the relationships of the proposed             road to cities, state highways,
                    county roads, or other well-defined topographical features.

              (12)The        stamp     and   signature    of the   registered   Professional    Engineer     or
                    qualified land surveyor preparing the plans.

              Cross Sections

              (1) Shall be platted on rolls of ten inch (10"), on standard cross-section paper.
                  Computer cross-section print-outs may be submitted in lieu of platted
                  cross-sections.

              (2) Shall show proposed           widened     cuts or fill if these are needed     for material
                  balance.

              If sewer and/or water facilities are required as the condition of approval of the
              Final Plat, the following may be required to be submitted with the Final Plat:

              (1) Plans and profiles of proposed sanitary, and storm-water                      sewers,    with
                  grades, pipe sizes and the location of manholes indicated.

              (2) Plans and profiles of the proposed water distribution system showing pipe
                  sizes and the location of valves and fire hydrants.

              (3) Specification for the construction of all proposed sewer and water lines and
                    other utilities.

Chapter 21, Land Divisions
December 16, 2009
                                                                         2 0 0 9 0 4 5 1
                                                                                                Page 21-29

               (4) Grading plans and specifications as required for areas other than streets
                   and ways.

               (5) Planting    plans and specifications for street trees and other plantings in
                   public areas.

     7.   County Surveyor Fees: The subdivider shall pay a subdivision review fee to the
          County Surveyor as provided in O.R.S. 92.100(2) which is included in the cost at
          the time of application. In the event a second field and/or office check becomes
          necessary because of substantial discrepancies found in the first check, the
          County Surveyor may, at his discretion, charge a second fee or partial fee.

E. Agreement for Improvements

     4.   Before approval of the final subdivision plat, the applicant shall either install the
          improvements required by the preliminary plan approval and repair existing streets
          and other public facilities damaged in the development of the subdivision, or shall
          execute and file with the County Governing Body an agreement between himself
          and the County specifying the period within which          required improvements and
          repairs will be completed.      The agreement may provide that if work is not
          completed within the period specified, the County may complete the work and
          recover the full cost and expense thereof from the applicant.

     2.   An applicant may request an extension of time for completion of required
          improvements. Such request will be considered an application for administrative
          action. Such extension shall be approved only if changed conditions for which the
          applicant is not responsible have made it impossible for him to fulfill the agreement
          within the original time limit(s).

F.   Performance Bond

     4.   To assure full performance        of the   improvement   agreement,    an   applicant     shall
          provide one of the following:

          a.   A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact business
               in the State of Oregon on a form approved by the District Attorney; or

          b.   cash deposit with the County Treasurer; or

          ¢.   certification   or letter of assurance   by a bank    or other     reputable      lending
               institution that money is being held to cover the cost of improvements and
               incidental expenses, and that said money will be released only upon the
               direction of the County Roadmaster.        The bank certification or letter of
               assurance shall be approved by the District Attomey; or

                                                         ) HT] C g 0 4 5 4      Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                        December 16, 2009
Page 21-30

           d. cash deposit with an escrow agent authorized to transact business in the State
              of Oregon subject to escrow instructions that require the escrow agent to
              release the money only upon the direction of the County Roadmaster. Escrow
              instructions shall be approved by the District Attorney.

     2.    Such assurance shall be for a sum determined by a qualified licensed engineer or
           in the case of survey monuments, a licensed land surveyor as sufficient to cover
           the    costs        of included    improvements       and     repairs     or monuments        and   including
           related County expenses; and

     3.    Such assurance provides that:                 If the applicant fails to carry out provisions of the
           agreement or the County has unreimbursed costs or expenses resulting from such
           failure, the County shall call on the bond or cash deposit for reimbursement; if the
           amount of the bond or cash deposit exceeds the cost and expense incurred by the
           County, the County shall release the remainder; and if the amount of the bond or
           cash deposit is less than the cost and expense incurred by the County, the
           applicant shall be liable to the County for the difference.

G. Parks,        Playgrounds, or Recreational Areas:                     The Approving Authority may require
     parks, playgrounds, or recreational areas be provided in the final subdivision plan and
     dedicated to the County in locations and of size indicated by the Comprehensive Plan
     for the area in which the subdivision is located.

H. Recreational Fund: Where no parks, playgrounds or recreational areas are required
   by the Commission, the subdivider shall pay to the County a sum equal to six and
   two-thirds percent (6 2/3%) of the assessed value of the land area, exclusive of
     streets, within the subdivision.                 Such sum      shall be paid to the County Clerk prior to
     recording of the final subdivision plan and such sum shall be held by him in a special
     fund for acquisition and development of parks, playgrounds,                             and recreational areas
     within the immediate area of the subdivision.

|.   Development               Phasing:      !f the   preliminary      subdivision    plan   approval,     pursuant    to
     Section 21.200 of this ordinance, provided for phasing of development, the applicant
     may request final plat approval for an individual phase of the subdivision by filing with
     the Director a final plat and supporting documents, as provided in subsections (A)
     through (F) of this section, for that phase only.

J.   Standards for Final Subdivision Plat Approval

     1.    The Planning Commission shall grant final subdivision plat approval if they
           determine that the final plat and supporting documents are in substantial
           conformance with the approved preliminary plan, including any conditions imposed
           by the Approving Authority.                Substantial conformance means that any differences
           between            the preliminary and final plans are "minor amendments",                    as defined in
           Section 21.110(A)(1) of this Ordinance.

                        wet
Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                       2069045“
December     16, 2009
                                                                                                             Page 21-31

     2.   The granting of final plat approval shail not be affected by a change in the zone or
          plan     map     designation        of the     subject    property   made      after   approval     of the
          preliminary subdivision plan.

     3.   Approval of a final plat by the Approving Authority shali constitute an acceptance
          by the public of the dedication of any street shown on the plat.                       Acceptance of a
          street by approval of the final plat shall not constitute an acceptance to maintain
          the street. Acceptance for maintenance of any street by virtue of approval of the
          final plat shall be by a separate process of petitioning the County Governing Body
          for acceptance of road maintenance. Approval of the final plat shall not act as an
          acceptance by the public of any other land for public purposes.

K.   Filing and Recording of Final Piat

     1. After final plat approval, the applicant shall submit without delay the final plat for
        signatures of the following County officials:

          a.     Planning Commission Chairman;

          b. County Surveyor;

          c.     County Assessor;

          d. An authorized representative of the Department of Environmental Quality, State
                 of Oregon, or the County Sanitarian;

          e.     County Tax Collector;

          f.     County Commissioners;

          g. County Clerk.

     2.   The     final   plat   shall   be   recorded     within   thirty (30)   days    of the    date    that   the
          signatures and approvals required by subsections (J) and (K) of this section were
          obtained.

SECTION 21.300        Private Road Approval Public Road Dedications
Any person desiring to create a public or private road not part of a subdivision or land
division shall make written application to the Director. Approval of a public or private road
is reviewed by the County Governing Body. Public or private roads being created as part
of a subdivision or land division shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission subject to
the provisions of Section 2.060(B).

                                                                                  m4
                                                                    9009045                  Chapter 21, Land Divisions
                                                                                                     December 16, 2009
Page 21-32

A. Application for Tentative Plan

    1. An application for tentative plan approval for road or street dedication or private
       road approval shall be initiated as provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

           The applicant shall submit to the Director a written application of a Tentative Pian
           prepared in accordance with subsection (B) of this section.

          The Director shall distribute a copy of the Tentative Pian to                               the   County
          Roadmaster and obtain his recommendation on the proposed action.

B. Information Required on Tentative Plan: Tentative Plans shall include the following
   information presented in the following form:

    1.     The Tentative Plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn to an appropriate scale so
          that the Approving        Authority     may   have     an   adequate        understanding    of what      is
           proposed.

          A vicinity map showing the proposal in relationship to other existing or proposed
          streets.

             Date, north point and scale

           Name and address of applicant and the person preparing the Tentative Plan.

          Appropriate identification of the drawing as a Tentative Plan.

           Location of the proposed dedication or private road abutting the unit of land
           proposed to be approved by the Section, Township and Range sufficient to define
           its location and, if available, a centerline description or nght-of-way boundary
           description.

         . Zoning classification and Comprehensive Plan Map designation.

           The names of adjacent subdivisions and the names of recorded owners of
           adjoining lots, parcels or units of land and the amount of frontage each owner has
           on the proposed dedication or on the private road.

           Existing roads      or street(s)     intersecting    or meeting      the    proposed   dedication       or
           private road.

C. Approval of Road or Street Dedication

    1, After considering the recommendation by the County Roadmaster, the Approving
       Authority shall approve the Tentative Plan for road or street dedication and
           recommend         to the County    Governing        Body the dedication        of a public road       if it

Chapter 21, Land Divisions                                                       n          4
December   16, 2009                                                       2 0    wv 9 0 4 5
                                                                                                          Page 21-33

        determines that:

        a.   the information required by this section has been provided;

        b.   the road or street is or will be improved           to meet all applicable standards of
             these regulations; and

        c.   dedication of the road or street to the public               is consistent      with     the goals,
             policies and map of the Comprehensive Plan.

        If Tentative Plan to dedicate a road or street is recommended                         to the County
        Goveming     Body,        and    the   street to be dedicated     has   not   been    improved,         the
        Approving Authority shall recommend conditional approval on improvements of the
        road or street       to    the    improvement     standards     recommended          by     the    County
        Roadmaster.

D. Acceptance of Dedication by the County Goveming Body

   1.   Before the County Governing Body may accept the dedication, the applicant must
        have completed any improvements required as a condition of the approval of the
        dedication or have complied with Section 21.210(F) of this Chapter.

        Prior to acceptance by the County Goveming Body, the owner of the land to be
        dedicated shall submit a preliminary title report issued by a title insurance
        company in the name of the owner of the interest in the land.

        Upon acceptance of the dedication by the County Governing Body, the owner of
        the land to be dedicated shall prepare a warranty deed dedicating the land to the
        public.

        The County Governing Body shall indicate their approval of the dedication by an
        order accepting the deed and              by recording such order with the recording of the
        deed.

        No   road or street will be accepted            for maintenance     as part of the county road
        system unless it meets the standards of subsection (B) and (C) of this Section and
        is ordered accepted by the County Goveming Body pursuant to law.

E. Approval of a Private Road

   1. The County Roadmaster shall determine if the private road meets the
      improvement standards and shall submit his findings as a written recommendation
        to the Approving Authority.

        The Approving Authority shall approve a private road if it finds that the private road
        meets the basic provisions and design standards of Section 21.030 and also the
                                                                                      Chapter 21, Land Divisions

                                                             2009 N45 4                           December16, 2009