FILED WASCO          CTY
                                                                              THE DALLES          OR.

                     IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON! 17                      300    PH '98

                          IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO                    KAREN       Re LEBRETON

IN THE MATTER OF THE DECISION ON THE                                           COUNTY CLERK
REQUEST BY DEAN PHETTEPLACE FOR A
COMPREHESIVE PLAN AMENDMENT TO ADD A
24.3 ACRE AGGREGATE RESOURCE SITE TO                                    ORDINANCE
THE WASCO COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ON A 174.96 ACRE PARCEL IN THE “A-1 (160)
EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE (FILE # CPA-98-
103-WAA1)

        NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business and a

majority of the Court being present; and

        IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:            That on 25 June 1998 the applicant, Dean

Phetteplace, submitted an application to obtain a Comprehensive Plan Amendment to adda

24.3 acre aggregate resource site to the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan ona 174.96 acre

parcel in the Exclusive Farm Use zone (File # CPA-98-113-WAA1).         The applicant

simultaneously submitted an application for a Conditional Use Permit (File # CUP-98-113-

WAAI) to allow extraction, crushing, and screening of aggregate on the same site. The

proposed operation is on a portion of the subject property located on the east side of Three

Mile County Road, approximately 9/10 of a mile south of its intersection with Dry Hollow

Road, and is further described as Township 1 North, Range 13 East W.M., Tax Lot 1000; and

ORDINANCE                                                                               10August 1998
CPA 98-103 WAA18-58P                                                                    Page 1 of 6
(Dean Phetteplace)

                                           YUWBEX (/)
         IT FURTHER     APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That on Tuesday, 4 August 1998, at

3:00 p.m., in the Columbia Gorge Community College, Boardroom #1.162, 400 E. Scenic

Drive, The Dalles, Oregon, the Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct a legally

notified quasi-judicial public hearing on the above matter. Those members of the Commission

present were determined to be qualified to hear the matter.    Chairperson Sandee Burbank read

the rules of evidence and opened the hearing. The Commission reviewed the record, heard the

staff report, and received all testimony and evidence, then closed the public hearing.    The

Commission then deliberated, resulting in a 7 - 0 vote to approve the Conditional Use Permit

and forward a Recommendation (Exhibit A) to the Wasco County Court to approve the

Comprehensive Plan Amendment to add a 24.3 acre aggregate resource site to the Wasco

County Comprehensive Plan on a 174.96 acre parcel described as Township | North, Range 13

East W.M. Tax Lot 1000, subject to nineteen conditions listed in CUP 98-113-WAA1;, and

         IT FURTHER     APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That on Tuesday, 2 September 1998,

at 11:00 a.m., in the County Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, The

Dalles, Oregon, this Court met to conduct a quasi-judicial public hearing on the above matter.

The members of the Court were determined to be qualified to hear the matter; and

         IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:                  That the Court reviewed the record of

the Planning Commission, heard the Staff Report and received testimony and evidence from

the parties and closed the hearing for further input.   The Court then deliberated, resulting in a 3

to 0 vote to approve the request by Dean Phetteplace for a Comprehensive Plan Amendment to

add a 24.3 acre aggregate resource site to the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan. Based upon

ORDINANCE                                                                              16 August 1998
CPA 98-103 WAA18-58P                                                                   Page 2 of 6
(Dean Phetteplace)                           £990 A {2              (al 5
the full record and evidence and testimony presented, the Court, being fully appraised in the

premises, did hereby make the following findings of fact and conclusions of law:

                                       FINDINGS OF FACT

1.       Proper notice was given and the hearing was held in accordance with procedural rules for
         quasi-judicial hearings and in conformity with said requirements as set forth in the Wasco
         County Comprehensive Plan.

2.       Three (3) members of the County Court were present and were qualified to sit as decision-
         makers after full disclosure was made and the matter of qualifications was discussed by
         the Commission.

3.       In making its decision, the Court recognizes the procedural and legal requirements of the
         Wasco County Comprehensive Plan and the Wasco County Land Use and Development
         Ordinance and weighed fully each requirement in arriving at its decision.

4.       The Court acknowledges and accepts the Findings of Fact in the Recommendation made
         by the Wasco County Planning Commission, dated 10 August 1998.

5.       The Court understands that by approving the request to add a 24.3 acre site to the
         Comprehensive Plan Aggregate Inventory List, the applicant has fulfilled the first of
        nineteen conditions of Conditional Use Permit 98-113-WAAI1A passed by Wasco County
        Planning Commission Resolution 98-104 on 10 August 1998. The Conditional Use
        Permit will allow extraction, crushing, and screening of aggregate on the same area of
         Township 1 North, Range 13 W.M., Tax Lot 1000 that Comprehensive Plan Amendment
         98-103 will add to the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan Aggregate Inventory List.

                                    CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.       The Wasco County Court acknowledges and accepts all original findings and
         conclusions made by the Planning in their 10 August. 1998 Recommendation.

        NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED:                   That the Wasco County Court
grants the request by Dean Phetteplace for a Comprehensive Plan Amendment to add a 24.3
acre aggregate resource site to the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan on 174.96 acre parcel
described as Township 1 North, Range 13 East W.M., Tax Lot 1000; subject to the nineteen
conditions in Conditional Use Permit 98-113-WAA1 listed below:

ORDINANCE                                                                             16 August 1998
CPA 98-103 WAA18-58P                                                                  Page 3 of 6
(Dean Phetteplace)                          fp G 7) aA Ko        Cs / »
    The applicant is required to receive approval by the Wasco County Court to include the
    identified extraction area as a potential site on the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan
    “Potential Site” inventory list prior to commencing aggregate extraction operations (#CPA
    98-103-WAA1-58P).

    The applicant shall provide an approved reclamation plan and an operating permit
    from DOGAMI to the Wasco County Planning Department prior to commencing
    aggregate operations. The reclamation plan shall include a drainage/erosion control
    plan for Three Mile Creek.

    The stream setback shall be no less than 100 feet (or as recommended by DOGAMI
    permit whichever distance is greater) and all existing riparian vegetation shall be
    protected and maintained.

    In the event that DOGAMI does not require a reclamation plan, Wasco County Planning
    shall require a reclamation plan that shall be of the general quality required by
    DOGAMI.          This reclamation plan shall be submitted to and approved by planning staff
    prior to commencement of aggregate extraction operations.

    To ensure the extraction area maintains the rural character of the area the applicant shall
    conduct reclamation concurrently with aggregate extraction operations.

    Crushing and extraction of aggregate shall be limited to 7:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. Monday
    through Friday. Hauling of aggregate and equipment maintenance shall be limited to
    official daylight hours Monday through Saturday.

    Aggregate operations shall not exceed 55 DBA at the subject parcel’s property line.

    The applicant shall minimize, to the greatest extent practicable, dust created by aggregate
    operations on the subject parcel.     Dust abatement shall consist of, but not be limited to,
    spraying water on all areas likely to cause dust.

    To further address dust abatement, if the applicant engages in any aggregate crushing
     on the subject parcel he shall obtain a permit from the Department of Environmental
     Quality.

10. The applicant shall ensure that the pipeline which runs through the extraction area
     providing water to the parcel to the north and west is not damaged by operations. In the
     event that the pipeline is damaged during aggregate extraction, the applicant shall
     repair the pipeline as soon as possible so as not to cause the two properties with the
     water rights any negative impacts due to a lack of water.

11. The applicant shall submit a water supply plan to the Planning Department for
      approval prior to commencement of operations.

ORDINANCE                                                                                16 August 1998
CPA 98-103 WAA18-58P                                                                     Page 4 of 6
(Dean Phetteplace)                              P96 2ko~              (4 »
12. Prior to commencement of aggregate activities the applicant shall provide a letter to
    the planning department obtained from Wasco Electric Cooperative which indicates their
      concurrence that the proposed aggregate operation will not negatively impact their power
      lines or that an arrangement has been made acceptable to both parties in regards to the
      power lines.

13. Prior to commencement of aggregate operations the applicant shall submit a detailed
    plan of improvements to the extraction area access road where it meets Three Mile County
      Road. The plan shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and include:
         -The dimensions of the increase in width and entrance radius          ;
         -Where the fence will be relocated, including distances, to allow for trucks to park
         while opening and closing gate
         -200 foot sight distance area where brush will be cleared
         -Sight line distances

14.   Prior to commencement of aggregate operations the applicant shall have the existing
      road approach permit for the subject parcel amended to include the improvements
      listed in condition 13 above.

15. Trucks hauling loads from the extraction site shall be adequately contained or covered to
      prevent rock spillage onto the roadway.      In addition, any significant amount of rock
      detectable at that intersection of the access road and Three Mile Road shall be cleared by
      the applicant regularly to insure traffic safety.

16.   The applicant shall remove the 24.3 acre proposed extraction site from agricultural
      tax deferral if this request is approved.

17.   While the existing manufactured home remains within the extraction area the applicant
      shall maintain a 50 foot buffer around its perimeter to ensure its safety from any negative
      effects associated with aggregate operations.

18.   Due to the existence of geological hazards located on the subject parcel, prior to commencing
      any aggregate extraction operations, the applicant shall obtain a written report by an
      engineering geologist or an engineer who certifies they are qualified to evaluate soils for
      suitability. The written report shall certify that the development proposed may be completed
      without threat to public safety or welfare.

19. The operator of the pit shall provide a “Stop sign” at the entrance to Three Mile Road and
    “Truck Crossing” signs facing both sides of oncoming traffic on Three Mile Road when
      operations are being conducted.

ORDINANCE                                                                                16 August 1998
CPA 98-103 WAA18-58P                                                                     Page 5 of 6
(Dean Phetteplace)                                J. 496 a §2- (nt)
         Regularly passed and adopted by the County Court of the County of Wasco, State of

Oregon

                 DATED this 16" day of September, 1998.
                                                                          COUR;

                                                       TELL
                                                     ohn      ey, Judge     WA
Approved as to Form:

                                                    Scoty McKay, Co!      issionér       \

Bernard L. Smith                                    Darr Ericksen, Commissioner
Wasco County District Attorney

ORDINANCE                                                                            16 August 1998
CPA 98-103 WAA18-58P                                                                 Page 6 of 6
(Dean Phetteplace)                         p G 0 A &>-          ( ff >)
                                  IN THE STATE OF OREGON

                          IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO

IN THE MATTER OF THE REQUEST BY DEAN                                 )
PHETTEPLACE OBTAIN A CONDITIONAL USE                                 )
PERMIT TO ALLOW EXTRACTION, CRUSHING                                 )
AND SCREENING OF AGGREGATE ON 24.3 ACRES                             ) RESOLUTION
OF A 174.96 ACRE PARCEL IN THE A-1 (160)                             )    98-104
EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE (FILE # CUP 98-113-                          )
WAAI-58P)                                                            )

        NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business and a

majority of the Commission being present; and

         IT APPEARING TO THE COMMISSION:              That on 25 June 1998 the applicant, Dean

Phetteplace, submitted an application to obtain a conditional use permit to allow extraction,

crushing and screening of aggregate on 24.3 acres of a 174.96 acre parcel in the A-1 (160)

Exclusive Farm Use zone (File #CUP 98-113-WAA1-P).          The proposed operation is on a

portion of the subject property located on the east side of Three Mile County Road,

approximately 9/10 of a mile south of its intersection with Dry Hollow Road, and further

described as Township 1 North, Range 13 East W.M., Tax Lot 1000; and

        IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COMMISSION:                   That on Tuesday, 4 August

1998, at 3:00 p.m., in the Columbia Gorge Community College, Boardroom #1.162, 400 E.

Scenic Drive, The Dalles, Oregon, the Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct a

legally notified quasi-judicial public hearing on the above matter. Those members of the

Commission present were determined to be qualified to hear the matter. Chairperson Sandee

RECOMMENDATION                                  ‘                                     10August 1998
CUP 98-113 WAA18-58P                                                                  Page 1 of S
(Dean Phetteplace)                {4 60 26             Ut)           EX      el E
Burbank read the rules of evidence and opened the hearing. The Commission reviewed the

record, heard the staff report, and received all testimony and evidence, then closed the public

hearing. The Commission then deliberated, resulting in a 7 - 0 vote to approve the Conditional

Use Permit; and Based upon the full record and evidence and testimony presented, the

Commission, being fully apprised in the premises, did hereby make the following findings of

fact and conclusions of law:

                                        FINDINGS OF FACT

1.      Proper notice was given and the hearing was held in accordance with procedural rules for
        quasi-judicial hearings and in conformity with said requirements as set forth in the Wasco
        County Comprehensive Plan.

2.       Seven (7) members of the Planning Commission were present and were qualified to sit as
        decision-makers after full disclosure was made and the matter of qualifications was
        discussed by the Commission.

3.      In making its decision, the Commission recognizes the procedural and legal requirements
         of the Wasco   County Land Use and Development       Ordinance and weighed fully each
        requirement in arriving at its decision.

4.      The Commission recognizes and adopts the findings of fact in the Staff Report presented
        to them and made a part of this record at the hearing held on 4 August 1998.

                                     CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

1.      The Commission adopts the Conclusions of Law as set forth in the Staff Report dated
        28 July 1998.

2.      The applicant met the burden of proof, demonstrating the willingness and ability to
        accept and carry out conditions required in the staff report prepared by staff and
         amended by the Planning Commission in order to address all applicable criteria.

RECOMMENDATION                                                                        10August 1998
CUP 98-113 WAA18-58P                                                                  Page 2 of 5
(Dean Phetteplace)                       /9® a Go           Cu )
        NOW,     THEREFORE,      IT IS HEREBY     RESOLVED:      That the decision of the Wasco

County Planning Commission is final, and approval allow aggregate extraction, crushing, and

screening from an inventoried site on property described as Township 1 North, Range 13 East

W.M., Tax Lot 1000 is hereby issued with the following conditions and protections:

1.   The applicant is required to receive approval by the Wasco County Court to include the
     identified extraction area as a potential site on the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan
     “Potential Site” inventory list prior to commencing aggregate extraction operations (#CPA
     98-103-WAA1-58P).

2.   The applicant shall provide an approved reclamation plan and an operating permit
     from DOGAMI to the Wasco County Planning Department prior to commencing
     aggregate operations. The reclamation plan shall include a drainage/erosion control
     plan for Three Mile Creek.

3.   The stream setback shall be no less than 100 feet (or as recommended by DOGAMI
     permit whichever distance is greater) and all existing riparian vegetation shall be
     protected and maintained.

4.   Inthe event that DOGAMI does not require a reclamation plan, Wasco County Planning
     shall require a reclamation plan that shall be of the general quality required by
     DOGAMI. This reclamation plan shall be submitted to and approved by planning staff
     prior to commencement of aggregate extraction operations.

5.   To ensure the extraction area maintains the rural character of the area the applicant shall
     conduct reclamation concurrently with aggregate extraction operations.

6.   Crushing and extraction of aggregate shall be limited to 7:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. Monday
     through Friday. Hauling of aggregate and equipment maintenance shall be limited to
     official daylight hours Monday through Saturday.

7.   Aggregate operations shall not exceed 55 DBA at the subject parcel’s property line.

8.   The applicant shall minimize, to the greatest extent practicable, dust created by aggregate
     operations on the subject parcel. Dust abatement shall consist of, but not be limited to,
     spraying water on all areas likely to cause dust.

9.   To further address dust abatement, if the applicant engages in any aggregate crushing
      on the subject parcel he shall obtain a permit from the Department of Environmental
     Quality.

RECOMMENDATION                                                                         10August 1998
CUP 98-113 WAA18-58P                                                                   Page 3 of 5 4
(Dean Phetteplace)                      p 9 D a £o-          Cit )                                 3 45
10. The applicant shall ensure that the pipeline which runs through the extraction area
      providing water the parcel to the north and west is not damaged by operations. In the
      event that the pipeline is damaged during aggregate extraction, the applicant shall
      repair the pipeline as soon as possible so as not to cause the two properties with the
      water rights any negative impacts due to a lack of water.

11. The applicant shall submit a water supply plan to the Planning Department for
     approval prior to commencement of operations.

12. Prior to commencement of aggregate activities the applicant shall provide a letter to
    the planning department obtained ftom Wasco Electric Coop which indicates their
    concurrence that the proposed aggregate operation will not negatively impact their power
    lines or that an arrangement has been made acceptable to both parties in regards to the
    power lines.

13. Prior to commencement of aggregate operations the applicant shall submit a detailed
    plan of improvements to the extraction area access road where it meets Three Mile County
      Road. The plan shall be approved by the Department of Public Works and include:
         -The dimensions of the increase in width and entrance radius
         -Where the fence will be relocated, including distances, to allow for trucks to park
         while opening and closing gate
         -200 foot sight distance area where brush will be cleared
         -Sight line distances

14.   Prior to commencement of aggregate operations the applicant shall have the existing
      road approach permit for the subject parcel amended to include the improvements
      listed in condition 1 labove.

15. Trucks hauling loads from the extraction site shall be adequately contained or covered to
    prevent rock spillage onto the roadway. In addition, any significant amount of rock
      detectable at that intersection of the access road and Three Mile Road shall be cleared by
      the applicant regularly to insure traffic safety.

16.   The applicant shall remove the 24,3 acre proposed extraction site from agricultural
      tax deferral if this request is approved.

17.   While the existing manufactured home remains within the extraction area the applicant
      shall maintain a 50 foot buffer around its perimeter to ensure its safety from any negative
      effects associated with aggregate operations.

18. Due to the existence of geological hazards located on the subject parcel, prior to commencing
    any aggregate extraction operations, the applicant shall obtain a written report by an
      engineering geologist or an engineer who certifies they are qualified to evaluate soils for
      suitability. The written report shall certify that the development proposed may be completed
      without threat to public safety or welfare.

RECOMMENDATION                                                                           10August 1998
CUP 98-113 WAA18-58P                                                                     Page 4 of 5
(Dean Phetteplace)                             Ja 60) a k2~ (»
                                                                                                       305
                                                                                      Road and
                                          a “Stop sign” at the entrance to Three Mile
19. The operator of the pit shall provide                                               when
                                                of oncoming traffic on Three Mile Road
    “Truck Crossing” signs facing both sides
     operations are being conducted.

                                                                              of Wasco,
                                            Planning Commission of the County
        Regularly passed and adopted by the

State of Oregon.

                                                        DATED this 10 day of August, 1998.

                                                         Sjamntlee- Burbank:
                                                        Sandee Burbank, Chairperson
                                                        Wasco County Planing Commission
                                                                  ——4

                                                             =                   4.

                                                         Dotty IbeVa ey, Planning Director

                                                                                       10August 1998
   RECOMMENDATION                                                                      Page 5 of 5     A
                                                                                                     5
   CUP 98-113 WAA18-58P                      fa D      a ‘es     lv )
   (Dean Phetteplace)