FILED
                     IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF AREGERUNTY
                           IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASMSCEP               IU    A E59
BH

       IN THE MATTER OF AUTHORIZING AN                  )       KAREN LEBRETON COATS
 WwW

       INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT                      )   ORDI NWN            ELERK
 F&F

       CREATING THE MT HOCD ECONOMIC                    )
       ALLIANCE.                                        )
 nan

             WHEREAS,      Wasco County (“County”), a political subdivision of the State
 MN
 on

       of Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution and ORS Chapter 203, is

       engaged in the provision of general local governmental services within Wasco
 o

       County; and
10
             WHEREAS,      the County intends to further its economy and efficiency by
11
       forming by Intergovernmental Agreement between Wasco County, a political
12

13     subdivision of the State of Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution and

14     ORS Chapter 203; Hood River County, a political subdivision of the State of

15     Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution and ORS Chapter 203; and
16
       Clackamas County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon formed under
17
       the Oregon Constitution and ORS Chapter 203 (each of which is referred to
18
       herein individually as “County” and collectively as the “Counties”), an
19
       intergovernmental entity to be known as the Mt Hood Economic Alliance; and
20

21            WHEREAS,     the Counties intend to use any authority delegated to the

22     Mt Hood Economic Alliance Intergovernmental Agreement to further the
23
       economy of each County by meeting the requirements of the Oregon Regional
24
       and Rural Investment Programs on behalf of the Counties; and
25

26
Page      1 - ORDINANCE

                                             L305" 0/99 (0)
     1         WHEREAS,        each of the Parties has taken, or is expected to take in the

    2    immediate future, all actions required under applicable acts, charters and law to

    3    authorize the execution and performance of the Agreement through which the

    4    Mt Hood Economic Alliance will be created.

    °           NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY WASCO COUNTY:

                1.     It is the intent of Wasco County to create the Mt Hood Economic

    8          Alliance pursuant to ORS      190.003 through ORS    190.265 by

    9           Intergovernmental Agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as

10              Exhibit A (“Agreement”), between the following parties: Wasco County, a

1               political subdivision of the State of Oregon formed under the Oregon

12              Constitution and ORS Chapter 203; Hood River County, a political

8               subdivision of the State of Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution

.               and ORS Chapter 203; and Clackamas County, a political subdivision of

16              the State of Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution and ORS

17              Chapter 203.

18              2.     The effective date of the Agreement is September 7, 2005.

19              3.     The public purposes for which the Mt Hood Economic Alliance is

20              created is to meet the requirements of the Oregon Regional and Rural

                investment Programs on behalf of the Counties of Clackamas, Hood River

23              and Wasco.     The Alliance shall develop a regional strategy as provided by

24              OAR 123-055-0100 through OAR 123-055-0620.            In addition, the Alliance

25              shall act as administrative and fiscal entity for the Regional and Rural

26              Investment Programs within the region.
Page        2 - ORDINANCE

                                                         L)9005- 49 (?)
                4.     To carry out its public purposes, the Mt Hood Economic Alliance

                shall have the powers, duties and functions as set forth in the Agreement.
 bw

                5.     The creation of the Mt Hood Economic Alliance pursuant to the
 &
 fF

                Intergovernmental Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A is hereby
 a

                ratified and approved and the County Court is authorized to execute and
 oOo

                deliver on behalf of Wasco County the Agreement.
 on

                6.     The Intergovernmental Agreement between Clackamas,

                Hood River and Wasco Counties may be amended from time to time by an
 o

10              order or resolution by the Board of Commissioners/County Court of said

1               Counties,
12
                7.     The provisions of this Ordinance, including Exhibit “A”, are
13
                severable.   If any provisions of this Ordinance are determined to be invalid
14
                by a Court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be considered a
15
16              separate, distinct and independent provision and the decision shall not

17              affect the validity of the remaining portions hereof.

18              8.     Immediate action being necessary to carry out the Mt Hood
19              Economic Alliance public purposes on an economic and efficient basis, an
20
                emergency is declared to exist and this Ordinance shall take effect
21
                immediately upon its execution by the County.
22
                ADOPTED      on the 7" day of September, 2005 by a unanimous decision of
23
24     the County Court.

25     Hut
26     Mill
Page          3 - ORDINANCE
                                        WASCO COUNTY COURT
LH
WO
 fF
 na
 aD
 nN

                                        Sherry Hollid&y, County Combbissioner
 wo

       ATTEST:
 no

10
          Kast.         NBi      ba
11     Kathy McBride’
       Clerk of the Court
12

13     APPROVED AS TO FORM:

14

15
       LED
       SSrieT. Nisley
       Wasco County District Attorney
16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

Page       4 - ORDINANCE

                                             L200             O14        Co)
                                                                                                     ixh- br         A

                                 INTERGOVERMENTAL           AGREEMENT
                    Between Clackamas, Hood River and Wasco Counties to establish the
                                   MT HOOD      ECONOMIC     ALLIANCE
                                            as an ORS 190 entity

     THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into by and between Clackamas, Hood River and Wasco
Counties, hereinafter referred to as the “Counties.”

                                              WITNESSETH:

     1. Pursuant to ORS 285B.230 through 285B.269, the Oregon Economic and Community
Development Department has designated Clackamas, Hood River and Wasco Counties as a region with
the purpose of developing and implementing a Regional Strategy including a Rural Action Plan.

     2.    The Counties previously created the Mt Hood Economic Alliance (the “Alliance”) by means of an
Intergovernmental Agreement effective January 1, 2004.

     3. The Counties desire to create a new intergovernmental agreement pursuant to 190.010(5) to
replace the informal structure previously created. The intergovernmental entity shall continue to be
known as the Mt Hood Economic Alliance.

     NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED by Clackamas, Hood River and Wasco Counties as
follows:

I.   Mt Hood Economic Alliance

    A. There is hereby created an intergovernmental entity pursuant to ORS 190.010(5) composed of
Clackamas, Hood River and Wasco Counties, to be known as the Mt Hood Economic Alliance. The
purpose of the Alliance is to meet the requirements of the Oregon Regional Investment and Rural
Investment Fund programs on behalf of the three counties. The Alliance shall develop and implement a
Regional Strategy as provided by OAR 123-055-0100 through 123-055-0620.         In addition, the Alliance
shall act as the administrative and fiscal entity for the Regional Investment and Rural Investment
Programs within the region.

     B.    The previous structure created by means of the Intergovernmental Agreement in effect since
January 1, 2004 and also known as the Mt Hood Economic Alliance is hereby abolished. The
intergovernmental entity created in paragraph A shall sncceed and replace the prior structure. The new
intergovernmental entity shall become the owuer of all the property and funds of the prior structure; shall
assume all obligations, indebtedness, and legal rights and responsibilities of the prior structure. All of
these assets and obligations shall become jointly and severally those of the parties to this Agreement.

     C.    The Mt Hood Economic Alliance shall be represented by a Regional Investment Board (RIB).

     D. Clackamas County shall return all Regional Investinent, Rural Investment and Revolving Loan
Funds and all other property of the Alliance in its possession to the Alliance, immediately upon adoption
of this Agreement. In addition, Clackamas County shall cooperate with the Alliance to ensure that all
other applicable contracts, debts, and obligations are assigned to the Alliance.

MHEA
   ~ ORS        190 INTERGOVERNMENTAL         AGREEMENT      (617/05)       f7005-              0    9        1

                                                                                                              C/o)
TI.   Regional investment Board (RIB)

       A     The Alliance shall be governed as follows:

        1.   The RIB shall be composed of twelve members. Hood River and Wasco Counties shall each
             appoint three (3) people plus one alternate to the RIB. Clackamas County shal! appoint six (6)
             people plus one alternate to the RIB. Each County shal! undertake their best efforts to select
             appointees that represent the private business sector, rural interests, and local government. Each
             member's term shal! last two (2) years. In the event of a vacancy on the RIB, the appointing
             County shall fill the vacancy within sixty (60) days. Altemate appointees shail serve a two year
             term on the RIB. Any board representation by the Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs required
             by law shall be from Wasco County.

             Members of the RIB shall meet and elect a chair, vice-chair and secretary-treasurer each from a
             different county. The chair, vice-chair and secretary-treasurer shall serve for one (1) year and are
             eligible for re-election.   The chair shall have the authority to call and preside over RIB meetings.
             The vice-chair may preside over such meetings in the absence of the chair.

             Decisions of the RIB shall be made only at meeting of which all members are provided proper
             notice as provided by Public Meeting Law. Each member shall have one vote. Alternates shall
             vote in the absence of a voting member. A majority of the entire RIB including at least one
             member from cach county is required for any decision to be effective.

             The RIB may adopt bylaws for its operations. The bylaws shall only be amended by a vote of at
             least five members of the RIB. At least one vote from each County is required for an amendment
             to be effective.

             The RIB shail be subject to the requirements of Oregon laws, including, without limitation, the
      bate

             Public Meetings Law, Public Records Law, Local Budget Law, public contracting laws, the
             Oregon Government Ethics laws, and workers’ compensation laws of the State of Oregon.

             The Alliance shall meet regularly as determined by the RIB. Special and emergency meetings
             and executive sessions may be called, upon notice as provided in the Public Meetings laws, by the
             chair or by any three members.

             The RIB shall perform the following services for the Alhance:

             Develop and implement the region’s Regional Strategy and Rural Action Plan approved by the
             Govemior.

             Determine the policies for awarding Regional Investment and Rural Investment Funds to
             individual projects and activities based on State Statutes and Administrative Rules.

             Approve funding for projects and activities and approve any amendments to contracts.
      us

             Serve as the administrative and fiscal entity for the Alliance’s Regional Investment, Rural
             Investment and Revolving Loan Fund programs.

             Serve as the public relations contact for the Alliance and RIB and market the Regional
      wn

             Investment and Rural Investment Programs in the region.

MHE— AORS 190 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (170s) f00s- O107
                                                                                                        >,           2
         Draft application forms and review applications from potential recipients of Regional
                                                                                               Investment
         and Rural Investment Funds.

    7.   Draft appropriate documents to evidence awards from Regional Investment and Rural Investment
         Funds. Provide for legal review of documents.

    8.   Monitor recipients of Regional Investment and Rural Investment Funds for compliance
                                                                                             with
         contract terms.

    9.   Determine what action to take if a recipient of Regional Investment or Rural Investment Funds
         defaults in its obligations, Pursue such actions.

    10. File and record documents as required.

    11. Disburse Regional Investment and Rural Investment Funds to recipieuts in accordanc
                                                                                           e with the
         contracts.

    12. Account for all Regional Investment and Rural Investment Funds in accordance
                                                                                     with the contract
        between the RIB and the Oregon Economic and Community Development Departmen
                                                                                         t.
    13. Prepare reports for the Oregon Economic and Community Development
                                                                             Department in
        accordance with the contract between the RIB and the Oregon Economic and
                                                                                  Community
        Development Department. Share reports with participating Counties.

    14. Prepare reports for the Alliance as requested.

    C. The RIB shail have the following powers and responsibilities in the performance
                                                                                       of its duties as
administrative and fiscal entity for the Alliance:

         Enter into contracts for fiscal, professional and other services necessary to carry
                                                                                             out this
         Agreement.

    2.   Adopt budgets for utilizing Regional Investment and Rural Investment Funds.

    3.   Apply for, receive, distribute and expend monies in accordance with Oregon
                                                                                    law.
    4.   Create an Executive Commitiee and other sub-committees to assist it in carrying out
                                                                                             its duties
         under this Agreement.   However, sub-committees cannot reverse decisions made by the full RIB
         or bind the full RIB without prior approval regarding a specific action, and must report all
                                                                                                      of their
         actions to the next meeting of the RIB.

    5.   Enter in contracts with the Oregon Economic and C ‘community Development Departmen
                                                                                            t.
    6.   Comply with applicable Oregon law.

      D. Debts, liabilities and obligations of the Alliance shall be, jointly and severally,
                                                                                             the debts,
liabilities and obligations of the Counties and shall be divided upon termination
                                                                                      in accordance with Part
IV below of this Agreement.

MHEA
   — ORS 190 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (6/1705) Ps-                                   i) og      L ) >)        3
HI. Dispute Resolution

     A.   Any dispute between the parties arising from the terms or implementation of this Agreement,
                                                                                                              or
any claim by any party for breach or enforcement of this Agreement, shall be submitted
                                                                                       first to mediation
and then, if unresolved, to binding arbitration.

     B.   In the event of a demand for arbitration, the parties shall agree upon an arbitrator or, if no
agreement is reached within ten (10) days of the demand, each party shall select an arbitrator.
                                                                                                       Each party
shall be responsible for the costs of its arbitrator. Arbitrators, by majority vote, shall have
                                                                                                  full authority
to establish procedures, rule on evidence and objections and render an enforceable
                                                                                         decision.

IV. Termination

    A. The Agreement shall continue until all parties mutually agree in writing to terminate it,
                                                                                                 or Wasco
County, Hood River County, or Clackamas County provides sixty-days written notice
                                                                                      to the other two
counties requesting withdrawal from the Agreement.

     B.   Ifany county terminates their participation in this agreement, the other two
                                                                                       counties agree to
make a good faith effort to accomplish the goals and purposes of ORS Chapter 285B which
                                                                                        establishes
the legal authority for the Alliance.

     C.   Upon termination, the Alliance shall return all funds and all assets purchased with Regional
                                                                                                       and
Rural Investment Funds to the Counties. Each County shall be entitled to a share of the Funds based
                                                                                                    on
the pro-rated share of its contribution to the Regional and Rural Investment Funds.        Any assets purchased
with Regional Investment or Rural Investment Funds shall be valued at their
                                                                            fair market value upon
termination and divided-per pro-rated share among the Counties.        In the event of a dispute between the
Counties as to the division of the assets of the RIB, thcy shall be sold, and the net proceeds,
                                                                                                after
subtracting the cost of sale, shall be divided per pro-rated share among the Counties.
                                                                                             Any sale or
disposition of the RIB assets shall be in accordance with Oregon laws. In the event the contract between
the Board and the Oregon Economic and Community Development Department provides
                                                                                          for the
disposition of unobligated funds and assets purchased with Regional Investment or Rural Investmen
                                                                                                   t
Funds, the contract shall prevail over this provision.

     D. Upon termination, the outstanding indebtedness, liabilities or continuing contractual
                                                                                              obligations
shall be divided per pro-rated share among the Counties.

V.   Miscellaneous

     A. No Third Party Beneficiaries. The counties are the only parties to this agreement and are the
                                                                                                          only
Parties entitled to enforce its terms. Nothing in this Agreement gives, is intended to
                                                                                       give, or shall be
construed to give or provide any benefit or ight, whether directly, indirectly or otherwise, to third
                                                                                                       persons
unless such third persons are individually identified by name herein and expressly described as intended
beneficiaries of the terms of this agreement.

     B. Records Maintenance and Access. The RIB shall maintain all records relating
                                                                                      to this Agreement
as to clearly document its performance hereunder. The counties and their duly authorized represent
                                                                                                   atives
shall have access to such records for the purpose of performing examinations and audits, and
                                                                                             making
excerpts and transcripts. Afi such records shall be retained by the RIB and kept accessibl
                                                                                              e for a minimum
of 3 years, except as required longer by law, following termination of this agreement,
                                                                                           or until the
conclusion of any audit, controversy or litigation arising out of or related to this agreement
                                                                                               , whichever
date is later,

MHEA - ORS 190 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (6:17:05)                         J00&               o/F
                                                                                                        q (2)
     C. Notices. All notices to the respective parties shall either be personally delivered or sent certified
mail to the following addresses:

Clackamas County:                     Hood River County:                    Wasco County:
2051 Kaen Rd                          601 State Street                      511 Washington St Rm 302
Oregon City, OR     97045             Hood River, OR 97031                  The Dalles, OR 97058-2237

     D. All parties shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws; and rules and regulations
on non-discrimination in employment because of race, color, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex,
marital status, age, medical condition or handicap.

    E. To the extent applicable, the provisions of ORS 279.312, 279.313, 279.314, 279.316, 279.320 and
279.334 are incorporated by this reference as though fully sct forth.

    F.   Subject to the limitations of liability for public bodies set forth in the Oregon Tort Claims
                                                                                                       Act,
ORS 30.260 to 30.300, and the Oregon Constitution, each party agrees to hold harmless, defend, and
indemnify each other, including its officers, agents, and employees, against all claims, demands,
                                                                                                     actions
and suits (including all attorney fees and costs) arising from the indernnitor’s performance of this
Agreement where the loss or claim is attributable to the negligent acts or omissions of
                                                                                        that party.

     G. Each party agrees to maintain insurance levels, or self-insurance in accordance with ORS 30.282,
for the duration of this Agreement at levels necessary to protect against public body liability as specified
in ORS 30.270.

     H. This Agreement shall be subject to the constitutional debt limitation of Oregon Counties set forth
in Article XI, Section 10 of the Oregon Constitution, and is contingent on funds being appropriat
                                                                                                  ed
therefore.

     I   This Agreement may be amended from time to time by agreement in writing, signed by all
parties,

    J. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. THIS AGREEMENT CONSTITUTES THE ENTIRE AGREEME
                                                                          NT
BETWEEN THE PARTIES. NO WAIVER, CONSENT, MODIFICATION OR CHANGE OF
                                                                       TERMS
OF THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BIND ANY PARTY UNLESS IN WRITING AND SIGNED BY
                                                                           ALL
THREE PARTIES. SUCH WAIVER, CONSENT MODIFICATION OR CHANGE, IF
                                                                  MADE, SHALL
BE EFFECTIVE ONLY IN THE SPECIFIC INSTANCE AND FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE
GIVEN. THERE ARE NO UNDERSTAN DINGS, AGREEMENT, OR REPRESENTATIONS,
                                                                        ORAL
OR WRITTEN, NOT SPECIFIED HEREIN REGARDING THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY, BY
THE SIGNATURE OF ITS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE(S) BELOW, HEREBY
ACKNOWLEDGES READING THIS AGREEMENT, UNDERSTANDING IT, AND AGREEING
                                                                           TO
BE BOUND BY ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

MHEA — ORS 190 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT (6/17/05)                      J         OS -WIFF
                                                                                                                ue

                                                                                                (/)
Hood River County             Wasco County                         Clackamas County
Board of Commissioners                         i                   Board of Commissioners

Rodger Schock, Chair                                               Martha Schrader, Chair

Carol York, Commissioner                                           Bill Kennemer, Commissioner

Les Perkins, Commissioner                                          Larry Sowa, Commissioner

                              APPRO’         AS TQ   FORM          APPROVED AS TO FORM
Chuck Thomsen, Commissioner

Maui Mever, Commissioner      Wasco County | Counsel               Clackamas County Counsel

APPROVED AS TO FORM:          Date:                                Date:

Hood River County Counsel

Date:

 MHEA — ORS 190 INTERGOVERNMENTAL      AGREEMENT       (6'17'05)     Z       00S- L/4F           ©