FILED W
                                                                                THE Al
                                                                                    5               an

             BEFORE THE COUNTY COURT OF WASCO COUNTY, OREGON
                                                                                            :   5         yu   BER

IN THE MATTER OF AN ORDINANCE                      )                      Sep 18                3.23 PHOT
AMENDING THE WASCO COUNTY                          )
                                                        ORDINANCE NO. 97-008 0                           cr eng
                                                                          we

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, TAKING AN                      _)
                                                                           1   hy

EXCEPTION TO GOALS 3, 11 14;                       )
AMENDING SECTIONS 3.230(B) AND                     )
1.090 OF THE WASCO COUNTY ZONING                   )
ORDINANCE; AND APPLYING THE                        )
AGRICULTURAL-RECREATIONAL                          )
ZONE, A-R PLAN DESIGNATIONS, AND                   )
THE LIMITED USE OVERLAY ZONE TO                    )
THE EXCEPTION PROPERTY

       THE WASCO COUNTY COURT HEREBY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

1.     UNDERLYING PURPOSE
       This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the authority granted to general law counties in the

State of Oregon by ORS Chapters 203, 197, and 215 to implement the Wasco County

Comprehensive Land Use Plan by amending the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan by taking

an exception to Statewide Goals 3 (Agricultural Lands), 11 (Public Facilities and Services) and

14 (Urbanization) (the “Exception”) and incorporating plan policies referencing the Agricultural-

Recreational (A-R) plan designations; amending the Wasco County Zoning Ordinance by adding

a new permitted use in the A-R zone and by adding a definition of “youth/family camp”; and

applying the A-R zone designation, the A-R plan map designations and the Big Muddy Limited

Use Overlay to 1360 acres located within the Big Muddy Ranch in southeastern Wasco County,

more particularly described in Exhibit A.

2.     AUTHORIZATION
       The applicant, Young Life, initiated the plan amendment proceedings by an application

submitted to the County in May 1997.     The Planning Commission held public hearings on the

proposal on July 14 and 28, 1997,    The Planning Commission submitted its Recommendation to

1-   IN THE MATTER OF AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE WASCO COUNTY
     COMPREHENSIVE        PLAN      (NO. 97-001)                                        |

                                                        Yb     0 34,           (67)
the County Court. The County Court held a public hearing on August 20, 1997, for which proper

public notice and advertisement were given, including 45-day notice to the Department of Land

Conservation and Development.     All persons present during the public hearing were given the

opportunity to speak or present written statements.

3.     EVIDENCE AND FINDINGS

       The amendment to the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan made hereunder is based on

consideration and analysis of the provisions of ORS Chapters 197 and 215 and Oregon

Administrative Rules Chapter 660. Due consideration was given to the testimony and evidence

in the record. The County Court finds that adoption of the Exceptions to Goals 3, 11 and 14 as

part of the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan is in compliance with the Statewide Goals, with

the applicable goals and policies in the plan, and with ORS Chapters 197 and 215 and OAR 660.

It also finds that the adoption of plan policies referencing the A-R plan policies and plan map

designations is in compliance with these referenced standards.    The findings and conclusions

showing compliance are attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by this reference.

       The amendments to the Wasco County Zoning Ordinance made hereunder are based on

consideration and analysis of the provisions of ORS Chapters 197 and 215 and applicable

Statewide Goals, the county plan and zoning ordinances.    Due consideration was given to

testimony and evidence in the record. The Court finds that amending Section 3.230(B) to add a

new permitted use, amending Section 1.090 to add a new definition and adding the Big Muddy

Limited Use Overlay to Section 3.700, Division 9 as new Section 3.930 are actions that are in

compliance with ORS 197 and ORS 215, the Statewide Goals, the goals and policies in the

Wasco County Comprehensive Plan and the criteria of the county zoning ordinance.

2-   IN THE   MATTER     OF AN ORDINANCE           AMENDING      THE   WASCO   COUNTY
     COMPREHENSIVE         PLAN   (NO.   97-001)                                   G   ‘          0123

                                                          0470363 (s¢)
consideration and analysis of the provisions of ORS Chapters 197 and 215 and applicable zoning

ordinance provisions.   Due consideration was given to testimony and evidence in the record.      The

Court finds that application of the A-R and Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay to the Exception

area is consistent with applicable approval criteria as discussed.   The findings demonstrating

compliance with these criteria are attached hereto as Exhibit B and are incorporated herein by

reference.

4.      AMENDMENT TO WASCO COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
        The comprehensive plan amendments, comprised of an Exception to Goals 3, 11 and 14

and plan policies referencing the A-R plan purposes and map designations are granted.      The plan

amendments include the Findings and Conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit B, the text of the

Exception Statement attached as Exhibit C and the text policies referencing the A-R plan

purposes as Exhibit D are incorporated herein.

5.      AMENDMENT TO WASCO COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE SECTION 3.230(B),
        AGRICULTURAL RECREATIONAL ZONE AND SECTION 1.090, DEFINITIONS

        The zoning ordinance amendments to Section 3.230(B) and Section 1.090 are approved.

The amendments consist of the Findings and Conclusions attached as Exhibit B and the text of

the amendments attached as Exhibit E, both of which are incorporated herein.

6.      AMENDMENTS         TO WASCO COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE BY ADDITION OF
        BIG MUDDY       LIMITED USE OVERLAY ZONE
        The amendment of the Wasco County Zoning Ordinance by addition of the Big Muddy

Limited Use Overlay is approved.     The amendment consists of the Findings and Conclusions

attached as Exhibit B and the text of the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay, referenced as Section

3.930, Division 9 of the Environmental Protection Districts, attached as Exhibit F, are

incorporated herein.

3-   IN THE MATTER OF AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE WASCO COUNTY
     COMPREHENSIVE          PLAN (NO. 97-001)

                                                            6490368 (SID
                                                                                                        0123
7.     AMENDMENT         OF WASCO COUNTY ZONING MAP BY APPLICATION OF A-R

       AND BIG MUDDY             LIMITED USE OVERLAY ZONES TO EXCEPTION AREA

       The requested application of the A-R zone and LU overlay zone to the exception area is

granted. Approval is subject to the conditions identified in Exhibit G, attached hereto and by this

reference incorporated herein.

                            of £ ppronlsee, 1997.
        SIGNED this \“\“" day
                                                 we          COUNTY COURT

                                            Vin
                                                      Khe Hi let |Judge

                                                 Ml   cott McK ay, Commissioner

     Bll
                            vi

 Bernard L. Smith                                Daniel W. Ericksen, Comtifiissioner
 Wasco County District Attorney

 4-   IN THE MATTER OF AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE WASCO COUNTY
      COMPREHENSIVE         PLAN     (NO.   97-001)                                    .

                                                                 al 4710363 C 59)
               S| PACTIC
             eee        155 N.E. Revere
                                                                                                           EXHIBITA

              Mem       Rend, Oregon 97701

                                                   Legal Description

      All that property being a portion of Section 36, Township 8 South, Range 18 East, and Scctions
      28, 29, 31, and 32, Township 8 South, Range 19 East, Willamette Meridian, Wasco County,
      Oregon, described as follows:

        T.8S., R.18E.

                Section 36:       1.) The east half of the northeast quarter (E%44NE)

        L8S.. R.19E.

                Section 28:       1.) The south half of the northwest quarter (S14NW4)
                                  2.) The north half of the southwest quarter (NAS W'4)
                                  3.) The southwest quarter of the southwest quarter (SWS WA)

                Section 29:       1.) The south half of the section (S’4)
                                  2.) The southwest quarter of the northwest quarter (SW4NW')
                                  3.) The southwest quarter of the northeast quarter (SW’ANE)
                                                                                »

                Section 31:       1.) The northwest quarter (NW"4)
                                  2.) The north half of the southwest quarter (NAS W'4)
                                  3.) The southwest quarter of the southwest quarter (SW%4SW%)
                                  4.) The north half of the southeast quarter (N/2SE')
                                  5.) The northeast quarter of the northeast quarter (NE}4NE)
                                  6.) The south half of the northeast quarter (S/“4NE’4)

                Section 32:       1.) The northeast quarter of the northwest quarter (NEANW’A)
                                  2.) The west half of the northwest quarter (W/ANW'/)
                                  3,) The west half of the southwest quarter (WAS W%)

                                                                                    (REGISTERED       —)
                                                                                       PROFESSICK 41
                                                                                      LAND, SURVE) SR
                                                                                    Za
                                                                                     fh. pbx
                                                                                           Cb
      18140] 01 \blemuddy.leg                                                                 21,          1997
                                                                                      VANUARY
                                                                                      KENNETH A. FISHER
                                                                                             2802
                                                                                     RENEWAL    : (2/99

                                                                           041 13635" 7
(541) 388-4255 Fax (541) 388-4229       Planning « Enginecring » Surveying * Landscape Architecture * Envitonmioental Services
(45) STEUL
g SvaS                        yes ie MKpid                                      y
     a   is
                                                                                    CHAN
     ip) SA) 4
                   ae
                                                      -¢

              SS

   \e ff)
 Sh &
 x
                   bth
                                          —                      ‘f
 °            7}

                                                           A KY Va an
                                                           SA
                                                                  a ra   Raw,

                                                           aes     i

                                           De
                         e

                                          ALR
          AG, |
e
ae

                         Se

                                          NY,
                                     sa
  w

                              +,ot

                                                Les
                         Al
          EXHIBIT B

  Big Muddy Ranch - Young Life
      Youth and Family Camp
Land Use Findings and Conclusions

         September 1997

        4/9703603 (S54)
                                    0139452.05
                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                     Page

       INTRODUCTION 0... cc eecccseseetseecessecesseeseceseesscesesessesaessasensacsascssasessseeseneceseseseseacensesneeesese 1

II.    APPLICANT. .....csccscccssessesnsesssesescceceeseccsnceesessacesuesseessceseceneseseseseesseeesesenssesessasenseseaaeansssaseaseces 1

i.     SUBJECT PROPERTY .....ccccccsssssscsssccesceccssecessesseesscssecseesseessesessesesseaeseessseeseeesseesrsensesnes 1

IV.    NATURE OF APPLICATION .......ccsscssssssscsssesecseecsscsseseneceuccsssseccessseseensesesessessetesessneeneees 2

       ELEMENTS OF THE APPROVED AMENDMENTS ........ccccsssssssssscssecsrecseceseseseecesssenetes 2
       A.   Comprehensive Plan Amendment ........cescecesccsseesseesscssesseecssseacceeseseeseeeteeeeseseues 3
       B.   LUDO Amendment ..........ccecsscscssseseessseccsssesessecssseseeesesseeesesesesssaeseessaseccsaeseseaaesonea 3

VI.    APPLICABLE STANDARDS AND CRITERIA oc ceccccccsccsseetseeeseseteseseeeatesneeeeeeneeseseeees 4
       A.    Statutes and Administrative Regulations .0.........ccsscccsscecstecesteceseceeseeeeeseeeeseeensceraeenes 4
       B.    Statewide Planning Goals ..........ccesseescessceeseessecesseeesaeeesaeeesaseseeeseeeeseeeesaeeeseeenseenes 4
       C.    Comprehensive Plan Provisions .........:ccscsscsccsscesesseseesssesscsseessesseessesseeeateneereseaeseees 4
       D.    LUDO) ProviSiONS.........:ccccssscsssscccesessccesssececseecssacecsstaeecesseeeseeeecesseeeeeecaeeessaaecenenseeses 4

VII.   STATEWIDE PLANNING GOALS 0.0... ceccsccesesssceeenecsaceseceaceeneceneceeseaeerseenaeenees “eeeeeeeeseeens 5
       A.         Goal 1 - Citizen Involvement.......ccccccsecsseseserseseeers Mc ccsaeecsescsesesesesssssscsesscssscseeess 5
       B.         Goal    2 - Land Use Planning .........cecccccccscseessecsecesseeeeneeseseeeeaessceseseesesseaeeeesecsseeeeeeees 5
       C.         Goal    3 - Agricultural Lands .0..... cee eceeesssceeecescesseeeeseesseseeseesseecsseeeessaesenseesaeeseaeaes 6
       D.         Goal    4 - Forest Lands.......ccscesccssssccesssecsesecsseeecsesneeceseacesnseceseeesesseeasseeseesecaeesees 6
       E.         Goal    5 - Open Spaces, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Natural Resources... 6
       F.         Goal    6 - Air, Water, and Land Resources Quality .......ccccccsssccssscssessessscstseseneeaseens 7
       G.         Goal    7 - Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards.........eeesssccessessesneeeeeeenee 7
       H.         Goal    8 - Recreational Needs .......ceesessscsstseesscssccsnscessaeessseesecensceessaeessseeseeesseeseneas 7
       I.         Goal    9 - Economic Development...                    cecccsssssssessteecssesesscesceseacesssaceneeeedecessraeeesees 8.
       J.         Goal     10 - HOUSING... eceseeceeseccenseeesceesseceeesssesssaeeesnesesaeseeeesaseeseeecsseeeeseeeseeeeseess 8
       K.         Goal    11 - Public Facilities and Services ......cccsscssscssesstessccescssesseecessecescssesenecseseoss 8
       L.         Goal     12 - Transportation... cceeescssssesessecescsecsnsessccsesesesecssesseeesesceseseseseasesseeeesen 9
       M.         Goal     13 - Energy Conservation ....c.cccesccscsccesssencceseesseceacceeseseceaeseeeseeeesseeseesseeneees 11
       N.         Goal     14 - Urbanization... cccccccccsssescessecesessccesseeesessacessssaesetaeesssesecessnecessseeeseneess 12

Vit.   REASONS GOAL EXCEPTION ......cccccsccssscsssesseceeecssesseessesesecssessasssascssssesecnesoseeetaseneenneas 12
       A.   Standards for Reasons EXception.......cccscsscscssccssecsecessccssecesaccsersesseeesesessneeeeeseses 12
       B.   Examples of Reasons Justifying an Exception .........cscssssesscsssesesssersessseesensonsees 14
       C.   Reasons Justification...         ccc ceesssscsssccssseecscccsecessscseesesnseesteccseesserseserscsaeesesseeseesonses 16
       D.   Alternative LOCations.........ccecsecsessccsssscsnsesssesssssssaceesecessasesceessecenseeeesdecesuaneesaesseses 20
       E.   Wasco County Comprehensive Plan... ecescsssctcctcesesessescetcesceteserssenseaseseeasaees 35
       F.   LUDO Criteria ....... deseesescesaeegaesuceesuscgecsaesscsseceuesssceesesensenssssacsseesaeeseeeeeeeaeeceeensess 38

                                                                    i    1470363                          (£4)                   0139452.05
                                                                                     EXHIBIT B

                               FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS

L      INTRODUCTION

               This document supports Wasco County Ordinance No. 97-001 which adopts a
statewide planning goal exception, related map and text amendments to the Wasco County
Comprehensive Plan (“Plan”) and Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
(“LUDO”), and implementing a limited use overlay zone for a youth and family camp on a portion
of the Big Muddy Ranch in southeastern Wasco County.

I.     APPLICANT

                The application approved by this final decision documented by Ordinance
No. 97-001 was submitted by Young Life, a non-profit nationwide Christian organization which
ministers across the country and on a worldwide basis to senior and middle school youths. The
Young Life organization, headquartered in Colorado Springs, Colorado, is over 50 years old and
has active ministries in 23 different countries.

                The property subject to the application is presently owned by two separate parties:
the State of Oregon (Division of State Lands) and Mr. Dennis Washington. Both owners have
authorized Young Life (by letter or contract) to file the land use applications. The Court finds
that Young Life has appropriate authorization to initiate these landsuse requests in accordance
with LUDO    Section 2.040.

Wi.    SUBJECT PROPERTY

                The Big Muddy Ranch consists of approximately 66,000 acres in southeastern
Wasco County and northeastern Jefferson County. Only a portion of the ranch consisting of 1360
acres along the Muddy Creek in Wasco County, was included in the application. The lands
included in the application are hereinafter referred to as the “subject property,” “site” or
“Exception Area.” No lands in Jefferson County are part of this land use approval.

              The subject property is depicted on Exhibits A-1 and A-2, adopted as part of
Ordinance No. 97-001. The legal description of the subject property is provided for in Exhibit A,
also adopted as part of the referenced ordinance.   The Exception Area, like the remainder of the
Big Muddy Ranch, is currently planned and zoned for agricultural use. This decision adopts land
use approvals for the 1360 acre Exception Area to allow use for a youth and family camp
consistent with the approved exception statement and the new Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay
Zone (Exhibits C and E to Ordinance No. 97-001). The remainder of the Big Muddy Ranch is
not subject to the land use application or approvals referred to in these Findings and Conclusions
adopted by Ordinance No. 97-001. It retains the A-1, Exclusive Farm Use, zoning and plan
designation.

                                                      Genscs (S94)
IV.    NATURE OF APPLICATION

                 The Young Life application consisted of the necessary land use requests to allow
Young Life to establish and operate its proposed youth and family camp at the Big Muddy
Ranch. Young Life has the opportunity to obtain fee title to the ranch by charitable gift from the
principal owner and Young Life intends to accept the ranch for youth and family camp purposes
as long as it is able to obtain the necessary land use approvals and associated permits for the
establishment and operation of the youth and family camp.

               Young Life operates a non-profit Christian organization with youth and family
camps located throughout the country. It is active principally with junior high and high school
age youth and provides a summer camping experience in unique quality settings in various areas
of the country. The Young Life camps are extensions of the activities which occur in Young Life
clubs in many junior and high schools. Young Life clubs are active in various communities
throughout the Northwest, including cities in Oregon, Washington and Idaho.

                 Young Life’s camp at the Big Muddy Ranch will serve youth from around the
Northwest. It will have capacity for 1000 campers, mostly junior high and high school youth and
will offer both indoor and outdoor recreational opportunities as well as dormitory, conference
and eating facilities. The main area of the camp will be located in the area along Muddy Creek,
an area already developed with roads, buildings, and facilities. Other portions of the ranch will
be used for various recreational opportunities, including hiking, climbing, rafting and related
water activities in the nearby reservoirs and the John Day River.»

               The requested land use approvals for the referenced site included the following:

               1.     A reasons exception to Statewide Planning Goal No. 3, 11 and 14 and
related map and text amendments to the Plan and LUDO to effect a zone and plan change from
A-1, Exclusive Farm Use to A-R, Agricultural-Recreational.

                2.       Young Life also requested that the zone change include the placement of
the Wasco County Limited Use Overlay (LU) (Section 3.600) on the subject property to limit the
uses to the use allowed by the exception. The LU zone is intended to be utilized in these
circumstances (meaning as part of a reasons exception) in order to limit the permitted uses to
those justified in the reasons exception (Section 3.600(A)).

               3.     The third request was for an amendment to the text of the A-R zone to list
a youth and family camp as an identified permitted use in the A-R zone (Section 3.230(B)).

                4.      The last request was to include a definition of youth and family camp in
the definitions section of the LUDO.

V.     ELEMENTS       OF THE      APP      ED AMENDMENT

               Ordinance No. 97-001 adopts the following Plan and LUDO amendments:

                                                 > 59-703 63 (SD
       A.      Comprehensive Plan Amendments

               l.     Taking exceptions to statewide planning goals necessary to allow the use
of the Big Muddy site for a youth and family camp.

                 Exhibit C to Ordinance No. 97-001 adopts the Big Muddy Exception Statement.
Consistent with OAR 660-04-018(3), the approved reasons exception limits the uses and
activities to only those uses and activities justified by the exception. A change in use or intensity
would require a new exception.

               The Big Muddy Exception Statement describes the boundaries of the approved
Exception Area, the nature and scope of the exception approval, the conceptual master plan for
the camp, and the nature of the camp’s uses and activities justified by the exception. In the
designated Development Area, consisting of 580 acres, the approved exception allows the use of
existing buildings, improvements, roads and utility infrastructure. The Development Area is the
portion of the approved Exception Area to be used extensively for camp purposes and is the only
area which can accommodate new buildings for camp purposes. New buildings are restricted by
and regulated under the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay, adopted as Exhibit E to Ordinance
No. 97-001, discussed in more detail below as an amendment to the LUDO.

                2.     Creating an Agricultural-Recreational (A-R) plan map designation,
adopting a policy statement for that designation and applying the A-R plan map designation to
the subject property.                                              .

               The Plan text amendment includes the adoption of a Plan policy describing the
purpose of the A-R plan designation. ‘This policy is adopted as Exhibit D to Ordinance
No. 97-001. The adopted Plan policy is consistent with the existing A-R purpose statement
provided for in the LUDO, A-R zone, Section 3.230(A).

       B.      LUDO Amendments

               1.      Rezoning the subject property from A-1 to A-R.

               2.      Amending the text of the LUDO to add youth and family camp as a new
permitted use in the A-R zone.

              3.      Amending the definition section of the LUDO to add a definition of youth
and family camp to the LUDO.

              4.     Adopt the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay Zone and apply it to the
approved Exception Area.

               Ordinance No. 97-001 approves these above-referenced changes to the LUDO.
Exhibit E, adopted as part of the referenced ordinance, includes the text changes to the LUDO by
amending Section 3.230(B) to add youth and family camp to the A-R zone’s list of permitted
uses and the new definition of the use to Section 1.090.

                                                      Bimses st
               Exhibit F, also adopted as part of the referenced ordinance, contains the text of the
newly adopted Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay Zone. Consistent with the purpose of Wasco
County’s LU zone, the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay is adopted concurrently with the
approved reasons exception to limit the list of uses allowed in the underlying zone (A-R) to only
those uses and activities justified by the exception. As provided for in Exhibit E, the Big Muddy
Limited Use Overlay has been made a part of the LUDO, adopted as Division 9, Section 3.710.

VI.    APPLICABLE        STANDARDS       AND CRITERIA

       A.      Statutes and Administrative Regulations

               The standards for a reasons exception are outlined in three places: ORS
197.732(1)(c), LCDC Goal 2, Part II, and Chapter 660, Division 4. The specific applicable
administrative rules when a request is made for an urban use on rural lands are set forth in OAR
660-14-040(2) and (3).

       B.      Statewide Planning Goals

               The adopted amendments comply fully with most statewide planning goals, but do
involve nonresource uses and some urban levels of facilities and services.   As a result, the
approvals depart from certain goal requirements, such as those of the Agricultural Goal (Goal 3),
Public Facilities Goal (Goal 11), and Urbanization Goal (Goal 14). In these circumstances, the
approvals include the taking of a formal exception which is an amendment to the Plan setting forth
facts and reasons authorizing and justifying the necessary departures from the goals. The
approved reasons exception incorporated in these approvals is discussed in detail below.

       C.      Comprehensive Plan Provisions

             The procedures and requirements governing amendments to the Wasco County
Comprehensive Plan are set forth in Section XI, (VIII).

               The findings demonstrating compliance with these criteria follow the discussion of
the reasons exception.                                                                 ;

       D.      LUDO     Provisions

             The LUDO (Section 9.020(B)) describes the criteria relevant to amendments to
the LUDO and county zoning map. These are also discussed below.

                These findings are organized so that the analysis begins with state law and
proceeds to local law. The first section addresses statewide goals and rules, including the
standards for a goal exception; the latter sections address applicable standards from the Plan and
the LUDO.

                                             pages (0
VI.     STATEWIDE        PLANNING      GOALS

        A.      Goal 1 - Citizen Involvement

                Goal 1 ensures “the opportunity for citizens to be involved in all phases of the
planning process.” Various opportunities for citizen involvement have been incorporated into
the Plan and LUDO. Compliance with Goal 1 is demonstrated by compliance with the
acknowledged Plan and LUDO provisions.

                For this matter, the Wasco County Planning Commission held public hearings on
July 14 and July 28, 1997. Public notice was provided as required by state law and Plan and
LUDO provisions. A public hearing was also held before the Wasco County Court on
August 20, 1997 following receipt of the Planning Commission’s unanimous recommendation of
approval. Prior to this hearing, the application statement, supporting documents, and a staff
report were made available to the public for review.    Notice of the hearing was published and
mailed to all property owners within 500 feet of the Big Muddy Ranch. Through this notice and
hearing process, the public was provided the opportunity to be involved in the planning process.
Thus, the Court finds compliance with Goal 1.

                One procedural issue relating to citizen involvement was raised by an opponent of
the proposal. Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart asserted that the County committed procedural error by
closing the record on a Saturday and requiring that submittals be post marked by Saturday. The
County did not commit procedural error. At the request of a party,,the County held the record
open for 10 days, following all testimony to allow for responsive comment to the testimony. It is
the County Court’s practice to close the record on the last day, even if that day is a Saturday.
State law only requires that the record be held open seven days after the initial evidentiary
hearing. ORS 197.763(6)(c). The record was held open for ten days and thus the statutory
obligation was met. Further, there was ample time and opportunity to comment on the materials
in the record.

                Even if the County committed a procedural error, the opponents were not
substantially prejudiced. First, the opponents have been afforded numerous opportunities to
comment on the application, both at the Planning Commission and County Court stages.
Second, prior to the close of the record, the opponents contacted the County Planning Office to
determine when the record closed and submitted over ten pages of additional responsive
comments to the testimony before the record closed. Nothing submitted by the opponents was
rejected as being received after the close of the record.

        B.      Goal 2 - Land Use Planning

                Goal 2 guarantees that processes will be followed which establish a land use
planning process and policy framework as a basis for all decisions related to the use of land and
assure an adequate factual base for its decisions and actions. Wasco County has acknowledged
comprehensive plan and implementing ordinances which establish the planning basis, inventory
and factual basis for land use actions in Wasco County. The Young Life application and this

                                                   ' Symavslst)
approval process adhered to the requirements and standards of the Plan and LUDO.        This
adherence to the process together with these findings demonstrates that an adequate factual base
exists to support the approval. Thus, the Court finds that Goal 2 has been satisfied. It is
recognized that Goal 2, Part 2 provides the exceptions process to allow departure from the strict
requirements of other goals in limited circumstances. The exception is discussed below.

       Cc,      Goal 3 - Agricultural Lands

                Goal 3 requires that agricultural lands be preserved and maintained for farm use
consistent with the state’s agricultural land use policies of ORS 215. The lands within the
boundaries of the subject property at the Big Muddy Ranch are agricultural lands as defined by
Goal 3. They are currently zoned A-1, an Exclusive Farm Use zone in Wasco County.

              While the A-1 zone allows as conditional uses certain uses which are similar to
Young Life’s camp, the A-1 zone does not allow this type of camp with its associated public
services for water and sewer without an exception to Goal 3. For example, the A-1 zone allows
“farm ranch recreation” as a conditional use (Section 3.210(C)(23). That use is described as farm
ranch activities including overnight facilities and recreational facilities that are operated in
conjunction with commercial farm operations. Young Life’s camp will have many
characteristics of this referenced use, however, neither its overnight facilities nor its recreational
facilities will be operated in conjunction with the ranching operation to be maintained on the
remainder of the ranch. Because the camp is not a farm or nonfarm use that can be allowed
under Goal 3, an exception to Goal 3 is being taken based on the reasons set forth below.        The
approval of the exception exempts the site from the strict application of Goal 3.

        D.      Goal 4 - Forest Lands

                The Court finds that Goal 4 is not applicable because the subject property does
not contain lands designated as forest lands. Wasco County’s Comprehensive Plan inventory
and the associated Timber Site Productivity map document that no forest land resources exist at
the Exception Area. (Comprehensive Plan, pp. 57-60.)

        E.      Goal   5 -    Open   Space   enic and Historic   Ar       nd       ral     our

                Goal 5 provides for the conservation and protection of natural and scenic
resources. The Plan and LUDO have been acknowledged by LCDC as being in compliance with
the statewide planning goals, so in this postacknowledgment proceeding, the county is entitled to
rely on its acknowledged inventory of Goal 5 resources in determining what resources subject to
Goal 5 are present on or near the Exception Area.

                None of the subject property has been specifically identified or inventoried in the
Plan or LUDO as a Goal 5 resource, nor is it within the area of potential conflicts with any
specific inventoried site. While the Plan acknowledges that agricultural lands “could be” an
open space resource under Goal 5, this subject property is not so inventoried. The Court finds
that the proposal is consistent with Goal 5.

                                                   °      OG 70363 (Gs 3) meee
           F.   Goal 6 - Air, Water, and Land Resources Quality

                The purpose of Goal 6 is to maintain and improve the quality of air, water and
land resources of the state.

                1.      Air
                The Exception Area at the Big Muddy Ranch is not located in or near a federal
attainment area. No foreseeable aspect of the Young Life camp will invoke the need for state or
federal air quality permits.

                2.      Water

                Appropriate permits from Water Resources Department (WRD) will be needed in
order to use water at the camp for quasi-municipal purposes. The Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) and WRD must review, approve and permit operation of the
existing sewage treatment facilities. In addition, DEQ must also review, approve and permit all
components of the sewage collection system including the sewers, pump stations and control
systems.

                3,      Land Resources

                There are no foreseeable solid waste or other contaminants from the camp which
will require an environmental permit. As a condition of approval, Young Life must submit a
solid waste management plan. Any and all other required land use permits (if any) will be
obtained as a part of the future processing of the camp approvals.

                The Court finds the proposal consistent with Goal 6.

           G.   Goal 7 - Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards

                The purpose of Goal 7 is to “protect life and property from natural disasters and
hazards.” This goal is implemented by the Plan’s corresponding goal and policies identifying
areas subject to natural disasters and hazards. The Exception Area of the Big Muddy Ranch is
not identified or inventoried as a natural hazard area and there is no development proposed in an
identified natural disaster or hazard area. As a result, the Court finds that the approval is
consistent with Goal 7.

        H.      Goal 8 - Recreational Needs

                The purpose of Goal 8 is “to satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of the
state and visitors and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational
facilities, including destination resorts.” The Young Life camp will offer recreational
opportunities to youth from Wasco County, other parts of Oregon, Idaho and Washington. One
of the primary benefits of the camp is to introduce youth and others to a variety of recreational
opportunities. The Court finds that the proposal is consistent with Goal 8.

                                                   1 (9423 (03(59)"""
        I.       Goal 9 - Economic Development

                 The purpose of Goal 9 is to “provide adequate opportunities throughout the state
for a variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and prosperity of Oregon citizens.”
The County implements this goal through the “Economy of the State” Goal and corresponding
policies. Policy 5.C further implements this goal by providing that “additional parks, overnight
camping areas, and other recreational areas should be provided when needed to encourage
tourism in the county.” The Young Life camp will contribute to this policy by attracting visitors
and campers to the County. The Court also finds that the camp will boost the County’s economy
by providing employment opportunities, principally during the conversion of the existing
structures and facilities to camp uses. Because the remainder of the ranch, approximately 64,000
acres, will retain its EFU zoning, the County’s policy of maintaining agriculture as a primary basis
of its economy will also be satisfied.

        J.      Goal 10 - Housing

                 Goal 10 provides for the housing needs of citizens of the state. This Goal is
largely inapplicable because the Exception Area does not now provide housing opportunities and
the Young Life camp will only offer limited permanent housing for year-round staff. The Court
finds that Goal 10 is satisfied.

        K.      Goal 11 - Public Facilities and Services

              Goal 11 requires the planning and development of an orderly and efficient
arrangement of public facilities and services to serve as a framework for urban and rural
development. The Court finds that public services will be adequate for the proposed use.

                 1.      Transportation

                Transportation issues are addressed below under Goal 12.

                2.       Police

                Police protection will be provided by the Wasco County Sheriff or the Oregon
State Police. The Wasco County Sheriff has confirmed his offices availability for providing
services to the subject property.

                3,       Fire Protection

                Fire protection will be provided using trained camp personnel and equipment
consistent with the requirements of the State Fire Marshall, as approved by the fire suppression
plan imposed as a condition of approval (Exhibit G) (Condition No. 4).

                4,       Health

                Medical and first aid will be provided by trained camp personnel.

                                                   | Pppsexssy™
                  5.     Sewer

                  Existing sewer facilities will be upgraded and permitted.   They are adequate for
camp use.

                  6.     Water

                  Existing water facilities will be upgraded for camp use and are adequate to
provide for the proposed use. All necessary water permits will be obtained for the use and
system.

                  7.     Power

                  Adequate power capability is available to the Big Muddy Ranch from Wasco
Electric Co-op.

                  8.     Schools

             The Superintendent of the Madras School District confirmed that the schools can
accommodate the students (the children of permanent staff) that may live year round at the camp.

                As previously noted, an exception to Goal 11 has been incorporated into this
approval because Goal 11 prohibits urban levels of public facilities and services on rural lands
outside a UGB. Because Young Life’s camp will reactivate and utikize the existing community
water system and sewage system facilities, the County has taken the precaution of assuming
these services would be considered urban services.

          L.      Goal 12 - Transportation

              The purpose of Goal 12 is “to provide and encourage a safe, convenient and
economic transportation system.” It is implemented by LCDC’s Transportation Planning Rule
(TPR), OAR 660-12.

                  1.     County Roads

                The approved Exception Area is approximately 12 miles southeast of Antelope
and is accessed by a county road (Cold Camp Road) and Muddy Road (a county road in part and
a local public access road in part). These are the only two county or local roads which will be
used to access the camp area. The County’s Director of Public Works has determined that these
roads are adequate to handle the traffic projected by Young Life and that the county’s current
maintenance program is also sufficient to handle the projected traffic from the camp.
Maintenance of that portion of Muddy Road which is a public road of local access is the
responsibility of the property owner.

               Two conditions of approval have been made a part of this decision related to
county road and public road maintenance. They are as follows:

                                                   > Vg ae2(sa)~
               “(2)    Paving of Cold Camp Road southerly from its intersection
               with state highway 218 shall be completed to a length of
               approximately 100’ or to a length providing the County Road
               Department a reasonable starting point for road grading.”

                                                 kK

               “(5) | The Muddy Road, a public road not maintained by the
               County, shall be maintained by the applicant in a safe condition for
               public as well as private access. If an alternate road is constructed
               to afford alternative access to the Jefferson County public road in
               lieu of any portion of the Muddy Road, either the Muddy Road
               shall be maintained for public access or the alternate route shall be
               dedicated to public access while the unmaintained portion of the
               Muddy Road may be considered for vacation.”

               2. -   State Roads

                 State Highway 218 will serve as the principal access other than local roads for the
camp’s projected traffic. In cooperation with Young Life, the Oregon Department of
Transportation (ODOT) assessed the traffic impacts from the project on State Highway 218.
ODOT concluded that State Highway 218 has adequate capacity to accommodate the projected
traffic generated by the youth camp. ODOT suggested that Cold Camp Road be paved for a
distance of 50 feet (Condition No. 2 extended this distance to 100 feet or to a length necessary to
start grading) to protect the surface of the highway from rocks.

                The Court recognizes that Condition No. 3 of Exhibit G also relates to
transportation issues. It imposes a requirement for a revised transportation plan in the event that
the projected traffic is increased by more than 30 percent. ODOT reviewed this condition when
initially proposed as a part of the Planning Commission’s recommendation and concluded that
the flexibility afforded Young Life (the potential 30 percent increase) does not negatively affect
State Highway 218. ODOT again determined that given existing traffic volumes on the highway,
there is adequate capacity to accommodate the projected traffic from the camp.

               Some opponents are concerned that traffic levels will create unsafe driving
conditions. However, ODOT and the Director of Public Works have determined that the levels
of traffic from the Young Life camp can be accommodated safely on existing roads. A condition
of approval ensures that if estimated trips increase by more than 30 percent, Young Life will
submit a revised transportation plan to the Planning Commission to ensure maintenance of public
safety.

                Opponents specifically expressed concern about traffic levels on Highway 293.
Most traffic from the camp will be directed from Cold Creek Road onto Highway 218, will
proceed west to the intersection with Highway 293 and will continue west on Highway 293 to
Highway 97 north of Willowdale. The use of Highway 293 diverts traffic to the south of
Antelope and avoids directing traffic through Antelope on Highway 218. The opponents’

                                                 ” Oysests2y™
concern about Highway 293 is unfounded. Testimony from ODOT included in the opponents’
letters in the record states that Highway 293 is adequate to accommodate the traffic increase
projected for Young Life. Furthermore, while opponents are concerned that during times of high
water, traffic will be diverted through Antelope, high water will most likely occur during rainy
seasons when there is limited camp use. As a result, it is very unlikely that any noticeable
amount of traffic from the camp will ever travel through Antelope. The testimony of ODOT and
the County Public Works Director, in combination with traffic information submitted by the
applicant, is substantial evidence that the road system is adequate to handle traffic from the
proposed camp safely.

               3.      TP

                 Because of the location of the Young Life camp, the nature of the project, and the
lack of public transportation in remote areas of the County, the Court finds that most of the
provisions of the TPR related to transit-oriented development do not apply. The only applicable
provision is OAR 660-12-060. It requires that local governments amending comprehensive plans
and land use regulations determine whether the amendments “significantly affect a transportation
facility” and, if so, to assure that land uses authorized by the amendments “are consistent with
the identified function, capacity, and level of service of the facility.” OAR 660-12-060 also
requires local governments to coordinate with ODOT in making these determinations.

                 The amendments to the county’s acknowledged comprehensive plan and land use
regulations as proposed by Young Life do not “significantly affect?.a transportation facility, as
defined by the rule. The adopted Plan and LUDO amendments do not change the functional
classification of a transportation facility, nor do they change standards implementing a functional
classification system (OAR 660-12-020(a) and (b)). In accordance with subsections (c) and (d),
the levels of traffic that will be generated by the youth camp are not inconsistent with the
functional classifications of the roads serving the youth camp. The Court finds that Goal 12 is
satisfied.

         M.    Goal 13 - Energy Conservation

                Goal 13 provides that land and land uses shall be managed to maximize the
conservation of all forms of energy based on sound economic principles. It is implemented by
local plans and regulations that contro! location, orientation and density of development to
minimize net energy consumption. Conservation measures are generally of two types: (1)
development of energy resources, and (2) wise use of energy.

                The Young Life proposal does not include the development of energy resources.
It does, however, include the reuse of many existing structures and provides for their conversion
into structures suitable for youth camp purposes. This conserves energy by minimizing the need
for construction of similar buildings elsewhere. In addition, uses within the camp will be
clustered within the Development Area to reduce the need for motor vehicle trips. Pedestrian
and bicycle trips within the camp will be encouraged by the use of camp buildings within the
designated Development Area,    The Court finds compliance with Goal 13.

                                                 11   G90            205(         SF)       0139452.05
        N.      Goal 14 - Urbanization

                  This goal requires that comprehensive plans provide for an orderly and efficient
transition from rural to urban use. It requires that urban growth boundaries (“UGBs”) be
established around incorporated cities through a cooperative process with surrounding counties
to assure compact and efficient urban growth within the boundary while protecting and
facilitating rural resource uses outside the boundary. It has been interpreted as requiring urban
levels of development inside of acknowledged UGBs.

                The determination of whether a particular use is an urban use is done on a case-
by-case basis. The Young Life camp has both rural and urban elements. The ultimate buildout
of the camp will allow up to 1000 campers plus staff and counselors. The presence of a
community water and sewer system can also be considered urban in level and type of use. On
the other hand, open space, recreational fields, water features and the absence of industrial and
nontourist-related commercial facilities are typical of a rural setting and level of use. Because of
the mixture of urban and rural uses, facilities, and services, it is necessary to take an exception to
Goal 14.

                The Court finds that the other Statewide Planning Goals are not applicable.

VIll.   REASONS        GOAL EXCEPTION

        A.      Standards for Reasons Exception
                                                                       w

                Goal exceptions are authorized under statewide planning statutes, goals and
administrative rules as flexibility tools for situations in which a departure from the strict
application of a substantive goal is justified based on site specific conditions.     Goal 2 defines the
term as follows:

                “Exception means a comprehensive plan provision, including an
                amendment to an acknowledged comprehensive plan, that:

                “(a)    Is applicable to specific properties or situations and does
                        not establish a planning or zoning policy of general
                        applicability;

                “(b)    Does not comply with some or all goal requirements
                        applicable to the subject properties or situations; and

                “(c)   | Complies with standards for an exception.”

There are three different kinds of exceptions, defined by state statute and rule. The three
different types are:

                                                   2 Vpqoses (9) ms
               e      “Development exceptions” are justified where the property
                      is physically developed to the point where resource use is
                      no longer practicable.

               °      “Committed exceptions” are justified where the nature of
                      nearby physical development makes resource use
                      impracticable.

               °      ”Reasons exceptions” are justified where there is a need for
                      development at the site in question and where the site
                      compares favorably with other possible locations for the
                      proposed land use.”

               This decision approves a reasons exception to Goal 3 (Agricultural Lands),
Goal 11 (Public Facilities and Services) and Goal 14 (Urbanization). An exception to Goal 3 is
required because the approved amendments to the Plan and LUDO authorize a use not permitted
by the A-1, Exclusive Farm Use zoning statute on land that satisfies the Goal 3 definition of
agricultural land. An exception to Goal 11 and Goal 14 is required because those goals prohibit
urban levels of public facilities and services and urban levels of use on rural lands outside a
UGB. Because of the size of the camp (a maximum potential of 1000 campers plus staff) and the
utilization of community water and sewer systems, the county has assumed these uses and
services would be considered urban in nature.

               During the hearings on these applications, the county received testimony from
1000 Friends which suggested that rezoning of the property was not necessary to allow the camp.
They suggested instead that an exception be approved and that the list of uses allowed in the
county’s A-1, Exclusive Farm Use zone, be expanded to include “uses allowed by the reasons
exception.” Their motivation for this suggestion was to ensure that the use allowed by the
exception could not change or intensify and to maintain the property’s agricultural designation.

                The Court finds that the suggestion by 1000 Friends is not allowed by state law.
ORS 215 establishes the uses which are allowed in EFU zones. Because the uses are strictly
limited by statute, the Court does not have the opportunity to add new uses to its EFU zone.
Moreover, the Court finds that the concerns of 1000 Friends are adequately addressed by the
imposition of the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay and by the limitations on the use authorized
by the exception. As a result, rezoning of the property to A-R, subject to the exception
justifications and the Big Muddy Ranch Muddy Limited Use Overlay, ensures approval of the
youth camp in a lawful way with appropriate assurances limiting the nature, size and intensity of
the use. The Court accepts the testimony of Mr. Brent Lake, representative of the Department of
Land Conservation and Development (DLCD) on this issue. Mr. Lake testified that in his
opinion the suggestion from 1000 Friends was not allowed by state law and could jeopardize the
validity of the County’s EFU zone.

                                                13      £497 Daves # arpa
                The general reasons exception standards are set forth in ORS 197.732(1)(c) and
Goal 2, Part I[(c). The statute and the goal provide that a local government may adopt a reasons
exception when the following standards are met:

              “(1)    | [Reasons/Need]   Reasons justify why the state policy
                       embodied in the applicable goals should not apply;

              “(2)    | [Nonexception Alternatives] Areas which do not require a
                        new exception cannot reasonably accommodate the use;

              “(3)     [Exception Alternatives/Comparative Impacts] The
                       long-term environmental, economic, social and energy
                       consequences resulting from the use of the proposed site
                       with measures designed to reduce adverse impacts are not
                       significantly more adverse than would result form the same.
                       proposal being locate din areas requiring a goal exception
                       other than the proposed site; and ~

               “(4)    [Compatibility] The proposed uses are compatible with
                       other adjacent uses or will be so rendered through measures
                       designed to reduce adverse impacts.”

               More detailed interpretative guidance is provided in administrative rules adopted
by the Land Conservation and Development Commission, principally OAR 660-04-020(2) and
660-04-022. Further, OAR 660-14-040 explains the requirements for reasons exceptions to
allow urban uses on undeveloped rural lands, as is the case here.

              The documentation supporting an exception must be adopted as part of the
county’s comprehensive plan. The exception should include all conditions, limitations, and
requirements necessary to define the nature, scope, location, and conduct of the proposed land
uses.

       B.      Examples    of Reasons    Justifying        an   Exception

               LCDC has promulgated an administrative rule which explains the “reasons”
requirement to mean:

               “* * * The exception shall set forth facts and assumptions used as
               the basis for determining that a state policy embodied in a goal
               should not apply to specific properties or situations * * *.” OAR
               660-04-020(2)(a).

                OAR 660-04-022(1) gives examples of the kinds of reasons which can justify a
reasons exception:

               ““k * * Such reasons include but are not limited to the following:

                                                      14         Liqv2v3        (4)       0139452.05
               “(a)    There is a demonstrated need for the proposed use or
                       activity, based on one or more of the requirements of
                       Statewide Goals 3 to 19; and either

               “(b)   | A resource upon which the proposed use or activity is
                       dependent can be reasonably obtained only at the proposed
                       exception site and the use or activity requires a location
                       near the resource.   An exception based on this subsection
                        must include an analysis of the market area to be served by
                       the proposed use or activity. That analysis must
                       demonstrate that the proposed exception site is the only one
                       within that market area at which the resource depended
                       upon can reasonably be obtained; or...”

               “(c)   | The proposed use or activity has special features or
                        qualities that necessitate its location on or near the
                        proposed exception site.” (Emphasis added.)

               OAR 660-14-040(2) elaborates on what reasons can justify an exception to allow
urban uses on rural lands:

               ““« * * Reasons which can justify why the policies in Goals 3, 4,
                11, and 14 should not apply can include but are not limited to
               findings that an urban population and urban levels of facilities and
               services are necessary to support an economic activity which is
               dependent upon an adjacent or nearby natural resource.”

                 The rules recognize that exceptions are exceptional and that it is not possible to
foresee all of the combinations of factors that may constitute an adequate set of “reasons” to
justify an exception. They do not purport to restrict the types of reasons which may support an
exception. OAR 660-04-022(1) simply provides “examples” that “are not limited” to the
examples of types of reasons provided. It recognizes that market demand and assistance to
counties in meeting their planning obligations under statewide goals and acknowledged plans
may be among the reasons that, taken together, explain why a particular exception is justified.
By its use of the terms “examples” and “not limited to” OAR 660-04-022(1) clearly rules out any
inference that its terms are intended to be exclusive. This exception is justified for a number of
reasons, several of which are very similar to the examples given in the rule.

                In addition, it is clear that in these circumstances of an exception including an
exception to Goals 11 and 14 for urban levels of use, the Division 14 rules apply instead of the
Division 4 rules. The Division 14 rules also apply to a Goal 3 exception when it is included with
a Goal 11 and 14 exception.

                Before addressing the relevant standards for the reasons exception in this case, the
Court will address testimony received during the hearings which challenged the nature or type of
the requested exception. Opponents suggested that this reasons exception is a “built and

                                                   15     Ny        a2           / Sf)        0139452.05
 committed exception.”    The Court does not agree and does not find persuasive the arguments
 presented by opponents. They claim that because consideration was given under certain reasons
 exception criteria to the existing infrastructure the exception was, in reality, an exception
 premised on the existence of development and facility infrastructure.

                  Contrary to these assertions, the Court agrees with DLCD’s testimony and the
 presentations and testimony of the applicant. The opponents have failed to recognize that there
 are different legal standards and requirements for the two types of exceptions. Different rules
 apply to each. In describing the reasons justifying the exception, the exception justification
 identified various reasons consistent with the alternate factors or reasons available to justify a
 reasons exception. As noted, the rules provide examples that do not necessarily limit the types of
 reasons that may be appropriate.   This exception was justified on the basis of need under Goals 8
- and 9, it was justified under OAR 660-14-020, and it was justified by other reasons similar to the
 examples identified in OAR 600, Division 4.

                It is clear that other standards relevant to reasons exception approval require a
 discussion of alternate sites and a consideration of impacts comparing the consequences of
 establishing the use on the site in contrast to or in comparison to another site (OAR 660-14-
 040(3)(b)). Under this standard, the exception justification properly and appropriately discusses
 the existence of infrastructure, buildings and utilities and contrasts the consequences of
 establishing the use at a site which has such facilities to a site which would by necessity need to
 construct new facilities and infrastructure. This discussion, required under OAR 660-14-
 040(3)(b) (Exception Alternatives/Comparative Impacts), has similarities to certain aspects of a
 “built and committed exception.” Opponents erroneously conclude, however, that the two
 exceptions are the same. Simply because the “ESEE” criteria are addressed, including beneficial
 consequences obtained by using existing structures or facilities, does not alter the type of the
 exception.

         C,      Reasons Justification

                 The approved reasons exception has been justified for a number of reasons
 consistent with the requirements of OAR 660, Division 14 and for reasons similar to examples of
 appropriate reasons identified in OAR 660, Division 4. These reasons include:

                 °       Young Life has demonstrated need based on Statewide planning Goals 8,
                         9 and 11.

                 °       The exception has been justified on the basis of the implementation of the
                         County’s comprehensive plan.

                 °       The exception has been justified on the basis of the location, the special
                         features or qualities of the location and the natural resources of the site
                         which are integral to the camp operation and on which the camp depends.
                         (OAR 660, Division 14.)

                                                   16 © L Ape                 (s4)               0139452.05
                1.     OAR 660-14-040(2)

               Under OAR 660-14-040(2) reasons that justify an exception may include a
finding that urban levels of facilities are needed to support an activity that is dependent on a
nearby natural resource. For the reasons discussed below, the Court finds that urban facilities are
needed for the camp and that the camp is dependent on the natural resources located at or near
the approved Exception Area.

Urban levels of facilities and services are needed to support the economic activity

                 Urban facilities and services are necessary to serve the proposed camp. The camp
will initially accommodate 500 campers and a second phase will accommodate an additional 500
campers. Campers will live in dormitories, eat in common cafeteria facilities and will share
recreational facilities. Because the camp is part of a coordinated, integrated development that
cannot be as efficiently served by individual water and sewer disposal systems, it requires
community water and sewer systems which are typically considered urban. Based on the number
of campers, the density of uses and levels of public services that support the Young Life camp,
the facilities and services needed to support the camp are urban in nature.

Dependency on Natural Resources

                Young Life chose the Big Muddy Ranch for its camp because of the abundance
and proximity of natural resources that are vital to the operation of the camp. The Young Life
camp has a dude ranch type atmosphere with hills and mountains interspersed with wide-open
expanses of land. The camp is also centered around the recreational opportunities provided by
streams, rivers and lakes as well as the hiking, climbing opportunities of the rimrock areas.
Young Life camps are designed to be located on sites that offer nearly all of the proposed
recreational activities that campers will participate in to avoid bussing campers from location to
location. As a result, the chosen camp site must have a number of unique natural resources in
close proximity.

                The proposed Big Muddy exception area contains unique natural features that
make it ideal for the proposed camp use. First, the Exception Area is located in a valley bordered
by unique rock formations that are suitable for both beginning and more advanced rock climbing
opportunities. Running through the valley is a stream with reservoirs that are needed for boating
and swimming activities. In the immediate vicinity of the Exception Area is the John Day River
which will provide rafting, fishing, boating and floating opportunities.

              The camp is also dependent on the 66,000 acres of the ranch outside of the
Exception Area to provide isolation from neighboring ranches and to provide additional
recreational opportunities.   The surrounding acreage will provide nearby horseback riding,
camping and hiking opportunities.

                                                  17     4-7         Aled       ( S4)         0139452.05
Location - Primary Market Area

                 One of the primary factors considered in determining the location of Young Life
camps is the distance from primary market areas. Currently, the only national Young Life camps
on the west coast are located in California and in British Columbia. Both of these camps are
attended by campers from Washington, Oregon and Idaho and have significant waiting lists.
Over 2,700 youths from Oregon, Washington and Idaho attend Young Life camps each summer.
As discussed in the application, the two West Coast camps have annually been operating at or
above capacity. On a nationwide basis, there is a waiting list of over 3,000 campers. Because
there is no national camp in the immediate vicinity of the identified market area and because so
many of the campers are from Oregon, Washington and Idaho, the location in north central
Oregon is critical to the Young Life program. The application details the basis for establishing
the primary market area critical to the location justification.

Climate

               Another primary reason the applicant chose to locate a Young Life camp at the
proposed exception area is climate. Outdoor activities will predominate at the Young Life camp
during the summer when the level of use is highest. As a result, consistent, dry and relatively hot
summer weather is required. Locations in Western Oregon were not considered because of the
lengthy rainy season. The arid high-desert climate of central Oregon is ideal for year-round .
camping uses because of dry, hot summers and the comparatively dry fall and spring seasons.
The map of mean annual precipitation in the State of Oregon from the Oregon Climate Service
shows that the Big Muddy Ranch receives 10 to 16 inches of rain per year. The only areas of
Oregon that receive that little rain are in north central Oregon and southeastern Oregon. A
location in southeastern Oregon is too far from primary market areas, as discussed above.

               2.      Need to Meet Requirements and Fulfill Purposes of Statewide Goals 8
                       and   9

                Statewide Goal 8 encourages the provision of recreational facilities for visitors
and residents of the state. It also establishes planning guidelines for the state’s recreational needs
and requires the planning for and siting of necessary recreational facilities. Goal 8’s Planning
Guideline No. 7 provides that the planning and provision of recreational facilities and
opportunities should be given to areas, facilities and uses that meet recreational need
requirements for a high density population, serve persons of limited mobility and finances, meet
recreational need requirements while conserving energy, minimize environmental deterioration,
are available to the public at nominal cost, and meet the need of visitors to the state.

               The approved exception serves to meet the requirements of Goal 8. The exception
demonstrates that the youth of the Northwest, including Oregon, are in need of a youth camp
recreational facility. The need is evidenced not only by the full occupancy of existing facilities
in California and British Columbia, but also by the extensive waiting lists for the existing Young
Lift camps in the Northwest. The approved exception also implements Goal 8’s Planning
Guideline No. 7. It provides recreational opportunities to meet recreational needs for a high
density population. The Young Life camp at the Big Muddy Ranch has been located to serve

                                                  18     yz                     57)           0139452.05
youth from urban areas in Washington, Oregon and, in part, Idaho. Based on the market
analysis, over 75 percent of the campers will be from the high density centers in the Willamette
Valley in Oregon and along the I-5 corridor in Washington. Further, the camp is available to
youth of limited mobility and finances and is designed to conserve energy and minimize
environmental impacts by utilizing existing facilities and structures. The needs of Goal 8 are
fulfilled by the approval of the reasons exception.

                 The approved exception also serves to meet the requirements of and fulfill the
purposes of Goal 9. Goal 9 requires counties “to provide adequate opportunities throughout the
state for a variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and prosperity of Oregon’s
citizens.” Under Goal 9, counties are required to identify areas suitable for increased economic
growth and activity after taking into consideration the economic base, material and energy
availability and cost, labor, availability of public facilities, etc.

                The economic development needs and requirements of Goal 9 are fulfilled by the
approved exception. The youth camp will bring construction jobs to the county for the
construction and remodeling of the camp facilities and infrastructure and for ongoing
maintenance of camp structures and facilities. While the number of permanent paid employees is
limited due to the extensive volunteer program utilized by Young Life, the camp will offer a
significant ongoing economic benefit to Wasco County. In addition to construction employment,
the camp will also contribute to the prosperity of the county through the purchasing of goods and
services necessary for the operation of the camp and the addition of new administrative personnel
for camp operations together with the addition of approximately 15.new permanent residents to
manage the ranch property.

                The development of the youth camp will also fulfill Goal 9 because the economic
growth associated with the camp will occur at a site which has adequate transportation access,
existing public facilities and maintains the agriculturally-based ranching activities on the
remainder of the ranch by retaining its EFU designation.

               3,      Enablin      a        n            Its   Plannin    ligation

                Another reason establishing the justification for the approved exception is that the
exception will enable Wasco County to meet one or more of its planning obligations. Such
obligations can be found in both the Statewide Planning Goals and in acknowledged
comprehensive plans. In Wasco County, an exception for the Young Life youth camp enables
the county to secure a significant new use satisfying its goals to provide adequate recreational
opportunities, to enhance its economic base, and to encourage tourism in the county.

                 The Wasco County Comprehensive Plan’s Recreational Goal is “to satisfy the
recreational needs of the citizens of Wasco County and visitors.” This goal implements
Statewide Planning Goal 8 which requires local jurisdictions to “satisfy the recreational needs of        .
the citizens of the state and visitors.” The Wasco County Comprehensive Plan’s Economic Goal
is to “diversify and improve the economy of Wasco County.” The Goal carries out the mandate
of LCDC Goal 9 which requires comprehensive plans and policies to “contribute to a stable and
healthy economy in all regions of the state.” This exception provides the county with an

                                                  19   O47                Boe (54)           0139452.05
important vehicle to provide that support, to contribute to the Wasco County economy, and to
realize some fulfillment of the county’s recreational need policy.

               4.     Market Demand
               While market demand alone does not justify an exception, it is a relevant factor in
a reasons analysis. Based on the historical demand and estimated annual attendance for Young
Life camps throughout the country, in the Northwest, and as projected for the Big Muddy, the
Court finds the existence of the necessary market demand.

                Young Life has 10 national camps, four regional camps and three wilderness
programs. These camps serve approximately 70,000 campers, 11,000 leaders, 6,500 volunteer
work crew and staff, 2,500 adult guests and 8,000 wilderness and leadership campers.
Approximately 70 percent of the campers are junior high and high school youth. There are only
two Young Life national camps in the Northwest. One is near Sacramento; the other is in British
Columbia. Oregon, Washington and Idaho youth generally travel to one of those national camps,
if possible. For the past five summers, these Young Life camps have exceeded 100 percent
occupancy and each year over 3,000 kids remain on waiting lists because the camps are full.

                Young Life is active in many communities in the Northwest, including the Seattle
area, Yakima and Spokane as well as the Bend area and many communities in the Portland area
and the Willamette Valley. It is anticipated that youth from these communities in the Northwest
as well as youth from schools in Idaho will attend camp at the Big Muddy Ranch. Over 2,700
Young Life campers come from the Northwest. Given the existing waiting list of youths each
year unable to attend summer camp, the market demand for the Big Muddy camp has been
sufficiently documented.

       D.      Alternative Locations

               1.     OAR 660-14-040(3)(a)

                OAR 660-04-020(2)(b) and (c) and OAR 660-14-040(3)(a) and (b) elaborate on
the analysis of alternative locations for the proposed use that is required to support a goal
exception. The analysis is divided between areas which do not require a goal exception and areas
which do.

                With regard to areas that do not require a goal exception, OAR 660-04-020(2)(b)
elaborates on the standard established by ORS 197.732(1)(c)(B) and Goal 2, Part II(c)(2):

               ““ Areas which do not require a new exception cannot reasonably
               accommodate the use’”

               “(A)   The exception shall indicate on a map or otherwise describe
                      the location of possible alternative areas considered for the
                      use, which do not require a new exception. The area for
                      which the exception is taken shall be identified.

                                                20    9q0%63(S7)                           0139452.05
               “(B)   To show why the particular site is justified, it is necessary
                      to discuss why other areas which do not require a new
                      exception cannot reasonably accommodate the proposed
                      use. Economic factors can be considered along with other
                      relevant factors in determining that the use cannot
                      reasonably be accommodated in other areas. Under the
                      alternative factor the following questions shall be
                      addressed:

                      “(i)      Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated
                                on nonresource land that would not require an
                                exception, including increasing the density of uses
                                on nonresource land?    If not, why not?

                      “(ii)    | Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated
                                 on resource land that is already irrevocably
                                 committed to nonresource uses, not allowed by the
                                 applicable Goal, including resource land in existing
                                 rural centers, or by increasing the density of uses on
                                 committed lands? If not, why not?

                      “(iii)    Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated
                                inside an urban growth boundary? Ifnot, why not?

               “(C)   This alternative areas standard can be met by a broad
                      review of similar types of areas rather than a review of
                      specific alternative sites. Initially, a local government
                      adopting an exception need assess only whether the similar
                      types of areas in the vicinity could not reasonably
                      accommodate the proposed use. Site specific comparisons
                      are not required of a local government taking an exception,
                      unless another party to the local proceeding can describe
                      why there are specific sites that can more reasonably
                      accommodate the proposed use. A detailed evaluation of
                       specific alternative sites is thus not required unless such
                      sites are specifically described with facts to support the
                      assertion that the sites are more reasonable by another party
                      during the local exceptions proceeding.”

               In the circumstances of an exception to Goals 3, 11 and 14 (as in this case), OAR
660-14-040(3)(a) provides that the “areas which do not require a new exception cannot
reasonably accommodate the use” standard can be met:

               ““* * * by showing the proposed urban development cannot be
               reasonably accommodated in or through expansion of existing

                                                   1      4970362 [ SF)                   0139452.05
               urban growth boundaries or by intensification of development at
               existing rural centers.”

                In order to document compliance with this standard, an analysis of urban growth
boundaries and existing rural centers was undertaken for a five county area in north central
Oregon. The jurisdictions included in the review were Wasco, Jefferson, Sherman, Wheeler, and
Gilliam counties, as well as each incorporated jurisdiction and rural center located in each of the
counties. The five county area in north central Oregon was identified and delineated on the basis
of the following factors:

               °       Weather/climate

               °       Adequate transportation facilities

               e       Proximity to market area

                One principal locational factor in establishing the parameters of the alternative
sites analysis was the climate of the area. Given that outdoor activities predominate at the camp,
consistent predictable weather in the spring, summer and fall was critical. In addition, moderate
temperatures and minimal snowfall was considered in order to accommodate year-round
camping. An arid high desert climate was identified as ideal for year round camping uses based
on its dry, hot summers and cool, comparatively dry fall and spring seasons.

                 A second factor in the alternative site analysis was the proximity to the market
area. The proposal required a location which would be within a reasonable driving distance from
the primary camp markets. The demographic analysis indicates that approximately 40 percent of
the campers would be from western Washington, 15 percent from eastern Washington and close
to 45 percent from western Oregon. A location within driving distance from these markets was
essential. Because camp patrons will originate their trips in a variety of areas in the Pacific
Northwest, a location near Interstate 84 with adequate local transportation systems was essential.
There was no challenge during the hearings on this approval to the area considered for the
alternative sites analysis.

               The analysis of the five county area demonstrated that the proposed use cannot be
reasonably accommodated within any existing urban growth boundaries, through expansion of
existing urban growth boundaries or by intensification of development at existing rural centers.
The testimony of Mr. Brent Lake, the Eastern Oregon representative for the Department of Land
Conservation and Development (DLCD) confirmed the results of the analysis that the proposed
use could not be reasonably accommodated inside UGBs or rural centers. There was no specific
evidence contesting this point. The Court finds Mr. Lake’s testimony to be reliable and
persuasive evidence.

               There was considerable testimony regarding the process of collecting the
information regarding the availability of lands inside the referenced UGBs or rural centers.
According to the testimony of Young Life, Young Life representatives evaluated the availability
of lands in UGBs or rural centers by first calling local jurisdictions or consultants on contract to

                                                  ° Bwseslst)
  the local jurisdictions to determine the amount of available undeveloped land. Second, Young
  Life reviewed available documents at the DLCD Salem office. Finally, Young Life confirmed
  the information with Mr. Lake, DLCD representative. Young Life considered the following
  urban growth boundaries and rural unincorporated communities in Wasco County: The Dalles,
  Dufur, Mosier, Antelope, Shaniko, and Maupin.     As shown in the chart entered into the record at
  the August 20, 1997 hearing, none of the urban growth boundaries or rural communities contain
  adequate land for the proposed use. Similarly, Young Life considered the rural centers in urban
  growth boundaries in Jefferson County, Wheeler County, Gilliam County, and Sherman Country:
  Madras, Culver, Vitolius, Ashwood, Fossil, Mitchell, Spray, Conden, Arlington, Lone Rock,
  Olex, Wasco, Moro, Rufus, Grass Valley, Kent, and Big Junction.          As shown in the chart entered
  into the record at the August 20, 1997 hearing, none of these areas contain adequate available
  land for the proposed camp. Similarly, the intensification of rural centers was found to be an
  infeasible alternative given the limited lands available. Mr. Brent Lake confirmed that no
  existing UGB or rural center contained adequate land for the proposed use. On the basis of this
  reliable testimony and evidence, the Court finds that the limited acreage available in these areas
  cannot reasonably accommodate the proposed camp. The Court also finds that intensification of
  development at an existing rural center or the expansion of an existing urban growth boundary is
  not an appropriate technique to allow for the siting of a youth camp which encompasses
  approximately 600 acres with significant additional land needed for buffer and recreational
  purposes. Despite the fact that the Young Life camp will utilize urban level public facilities, the
  use is essentially a rural use. A Young Life camp requires large expanses of open land and water
  features for various recreational activities such as horseback riding, hiking, boating, and
  mountain biking.                                                     -

                  Opponents assert that there is no evidence that Young Life contacted local
 jurisdictions regarding available acreage because office personnel that the opponents called at
 certain jurisdictions did not recall speaking to Young Life representatives during the months
 prior to the hearing. Young Life representatives testified that requests for information from some
 local jurisdictions may have been made without specifically identifying Young Life because their
 discussions often dealt only with the amount of available land. The Court finds that there is
- substantial evidence that Young Life analyzed alternative sites by contacting local jurisdictions
  and confirming the relevant data with DLCD staff. The relevant inquiry for purposes of OAR
  660-14-040(3)(a) is whether there are existing urban growth boundaries or rural centers that can
  accommodate the proposed use or whether such boundaries could be expanded or uses intensified
  for the use. Young Life has provided substantial evidence on this issue and the results of the
  analysis have been confirmed with DLCD. The opponents have not identified a UGB or rural
  center that contains enough contiguous acreage to accommodate the proposed camp nor have
  they suggested that the use could be accommodated through expansion of a UGB or by
  intensification of development at an existing rural center. The Court finds that OAR
  660-14-040(3)(a) is satisfied.

                 2.      OAR 660-14-040(3)(b)

                  With regard to areas that do require a goal exception, OAR 660-04-020(2)(c)
  elaborates on the standard established by ORS 197.732(1)(c)(C) and Goal 2, Part II(c)(3):

                                                   » Sapo sess®
               “The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy
               consequences resulting from the use at the proposed site with
               measures designed to reduce adverse impacts are not significantly
               more adverse than typically result from the same proposal being
               located in other areas requiring a Goal exception. The exception
               shall describe the characteristics of each alternative areas [sic]
               considered by the jurisdiction for which an exception might be
               taken, the typical advantages and disadvantages of using the area
               for a use not allowed by the Goal, and the typical positive and
               negative consequences resulting from the use at the proposed site
               with measures designed to reduce adverse impacts. A detailed
               evaluation of specific alternative sites is not required unless such
               sites are specifically described with facts to support the assertion
               that the sites have significantly fewer adverse impacts during the
               local exceptions proceeding. The exception shall include the
               reasons why the consequences of the use at the chosen site are not
               significantly more adverse than typically result from the same
               proposal being located in areas requiring a goal exception other
               than the proposed site. Such reasons shall include but are not
               limited to, the facts used to determine which resource land is least
               productive; the ability to sustain resource uses near the proposed
               use; and the long-term economic impact on the general area caused
               by irreversible removal of the land from the resource’base. Other
               possible impacts include the effects of the proposed use on the
               water table, on the costs of improving roads and on the costs to
               special service districts.”

                OAR 660-14-040(3)(b) provides that with regard to exceptions to allow urban
uses on rural lands the analysis of alternative sites which do require an exception must consider:

               “(A)    Whether the amount of land included within the boundaries
               of the proposed urban development is appropriate, and

               “(B)   Whether urban development is limited by the air, water,
               energy and land resources at or available to the proposed site, and
               whether urban development at the proposed site will adversely
               affect the air, water, energy and land resources of the surrounding
                       ”
               area.

               As noted, this rule requires an analysis of the comparative long-term ESEE
consequences of locating the proposed urban development at the Big Muddy Ranch, as mitigated
by measures designed to reduce adverse impacts with those of locating the same proposal on
other undeveloped rural lands. Under the rule, the comparison of alternative sites which do
require an exception must include consideration of whether the amount of land included within
the boundaries of the proposed urban development is appropriate.

                                                  24     £570        oS)                    0139452.05
                       (a)     Quantity of Land

               The amount of land included in the Exception Area was determined on the basis
of an analysis of the land needs for the youth camp considering the need for camp facilities,
housing and accommodations, camper services, recreational areas, open space, maintenance
facilities and utility infrastructure. The conceptual master plan depicts the proposed uses of the
land within the Exception Area and identifies how the camp will utilize existing buildings for
camp purposes and where new structures may be needed in the defined Development Area.

                 The Court finds that the boundaries of the Exception Area have been narrowly
tailored along the Muddy Creek valley so that both the north and south sides contain only enough
land for camp purposes. This area includes the existing service facilities which serve the camp
area. The Court finds that inclusion of these service areas is necessary to provide efficient utility
service to the camp site and that inclusion of these areas is appropriate. The Court also
recognizes that during the hearings on this approval, Young Life deleted two other non-
contiguous areas from the proposed exception area request. The Court finds that this narrow
tailoring of the Exception Area has insured that no more land than appropriate is included in the
Exception Area consistent with the requirements of OAR 660-14-040(3)(b)(A).

                       (b)      Carryin
                 Under OAR 660-14-040(3)(b)(B), the comparison of alternative sites which do
require an exception must include consideration of whether the urban development is limited by
air, water, energy and land resources at or available to the proposed site, and whether urban
development at the proposed site will adversely affect the air, water, energy and land resources of
the surrounding site.

               The Court finds that there will be no adverse air quality impacts generated by the
youth camp, nor will development of the camp be limited by available air resources. The
Exception Area is not in an air quality maintenance area and it is not subject to any air pollution
limitations. The Court also finds that there will be no industrial or commercial air pollution
sources on the site and that a youth camp does not generate air quality impacts.

                The camp will rely on its own water system. Appropriate permits will be obtained
by WRD and DEQ relating to water quality and water quantity. The Court has determined that
adequate water rights exist for the proposed use at the Exception Area and that appropriate
permit applications have been filed for the use of the water. The Court finds that the sewage
treatment facilities at the camp site are adequate to serve the camp, in good condition, and,
therefore, they will have no adverse affect on the water quality near the Exception Area.

                Opponents asked that the County limit use of groundwater at the camp. The water
uses at the camp will be limited by water right permits issued by WRD. Evidence in the record
demonstrates that there is adequate groundwater to serve the proposed use without adversely
affecting other users. No evidence to the contrary has been presented by opponents of the
project. Based on this evidence, the Court finds there is no reason to limit groundwater use, an
issue more appropriately dealt with by WRD regulations.

                                                  25      y4T0          BEB           SH    yur
                The Court further finds that the exception will not adversely affect the land
resources in or near the Exception Area. The Exception Area is comprised of two distinct areas.
The defined Development Area is the area of the exception which will be used extensively for
camp purposes. It is the location of existing buildings and facilities. It is largely encompassed
by the remaining exception lands of the Exception Area. These lands buffer the Development
Area from the surrounding areas of the Ranch so that land resources around the Exception Area
will not be adversely affected. Further, the Exception Area is buffered from other lands by the
approximate 64,000 acres of land on the ranch which will be retained in EFU zoning. Young
Life has indicated it will maintain its use as rangeland.

               The Exception Area is already developed with buildings and facilities. The Court
finds that the impact on land resources of using existing buildings, roadways, and facility
infrastructure is significantly less than the impact of locating the camp on undeveloped rural land
which would necessitate new construction of buildings and facilities with its associated impacts.

                       (c)     ESEE     Con    enc

               During the hearings on this proposal, no alternative sites were proposed. In
assessing the ESEE consequences as mitigated by measures designed to reduce adverse impacts
with the consequences of locating the same proposal on other undeveloped rural lands, the Court
has not considered specific alternative sites, but has considered the typical consequences
resulting from the use on other undeveloped rural land.

Environmental Consequences

               The Court finds that the environmental consequences to the Exception Area will
be minimal. The youth camp proposes to utilize a significant number of existing structures on
the valley floor which are currently vacant. Other structures on the hillsides will be removed or
decommissioned. Since the Exception Area only encompasses the area containing existing
facilities (utilities) and structures, use of the property will not require significant new
construction of infrastructure or buildings as would be required at another rural undeveloped
location. Further, the proposed camp intends to use the existing reservoir system for irtigation
and recreational purposes. Significant new development of water systems or lakes for
recreational needs will not be necessary as would be the case with undeveloped rural sites.

Economic Consequences

               The economic consequences of carrying out the project is discussed under Goal 9
above. The positive economic consequences would be similar on another undeveloped rural site,
however, such a site would require the expenditure of significant monies to construct
infrastructure, utilities and buildings for the camp which is not required at the Exception Area.
Further, the existence of adequate water resources is a significant positive economic factor which        .
may not be available at alternate undeveloped rural sites. Development of a water supply system
as well as a sewer system adequate to serve the camp would be costly at other undeveloped rural
sites.

                                                 26       G6       os) b 3(S9)               0139452.05
Social Consequences

               The social consequences of the Young Life proposal are not significantly more
adverse than would result from the proposal being sited on other lands. Because the roughly
64,000 acres surrounding the Exception Area retains an A-1 zoning designation, its use will
remain an agricultural one and will buffer the camp from neighboring properties. The Exception
Area also provides needed recreational opportunities for Wasco County youth and visitors.

Energy Consequences

                The energy consequences of the Young Life proposal are not significantly more
adverse than would result from locating the proposal on other rural lands. Significant energy
expenditure is conserved by locating the camp in existing structures and utilizing existing
infrastructure and facilities. The compactness of the Exception Area will save auto trips within
the camp and encourage pedestrian and bicycle travel. The pre-existing water and sewage
infrastructure will conserve energy expenditures required to establish such a service network at
an alternate undeveloped rural site.

Overall Consequences

                The Exception Area offers a superior site for the proposed use. It is ample in size,
has numerous unique natural land forms and water features for camp usage and has existing
development which can be utilized without significant impacts for the proposed use. Given its
high desert setting, remoteness, natural amenities, transportation access and proximity to the
market area, the Court finds that the Exception Area is well suited to the proposed use.

               3.      OAR 660-14-040(c)

                 OAR 660-14-040(c) requires that the proposed use is compatible with adjacent
uses considering whether the urban development detracts from the ability of an existing city or
service district to provide services and whether the potential for continued resource management
of land at present levels surrounding and nearby the site for urban development is assured.

               The Court finds that the use of the Big Muddy Exception Area as a Young Life
camp will not detract from the ability of existing service providers to supply service. The
Exception Area is fully serviced by its own community water and sewage treatment system and
does not receive water or sewer services from other providers. The existing domestic water
supply at the Big Muddy Ranch consists of numerous groundwater wells, distribution piping,
three domestic water storage reservoirs, and associated facilities. It is adequate to handle the
needs of the camp. The existing sanitary sewage collection and disposal system located in the
Exception Area is also sufficient to serve the Young Life camp. Thus, with regard to water and
sewer, there will be no impact on existing cities or service districts to provide service.

               Police services will be provided by the Wasco County Sheriff or Oregon State
Police. The Sheriff’s office has confirmed its availability to handle services for the camp and the
adequacy of its services for the camp needs. Solid waste management will be handled in a

                                                  27 (976303(54 )                            ssn
  manner approved by DEQ and the approved solid waste management plan required by Condition
_ No. 6, Exhibit G, as adopted by Ordinance No. 97-001 approving the Exception Area. Likewise,
  fire protection will be provided by trained personnel in accordance with the fire protection plan
  approved by the State Fire Marshall as required by Condition No. 4, Exhibit G, as adopted by
  Ordinance No. 97-001 approving the Exception Area. The camp’s permanent residential staff
  will be limited and less than 15 permanent staff will be housed at the camp. If any staff have
  children of school age, their impact on the school system services will be minimal. The Madras
  School District has confirmed its availability to accommodate these potential students.

                  The Exception Area is surrounded by the other ranch lands of the Big Muddy
 Ranch. Approximately 64,000 acres of agriculturally-zoned lands surround the Exception Area.
 Use of the Development Area as the area intended for camp use utilizing existing buildings and
 infrastructure will not affect ongoing ranching operations on surrounding lands. Given the buffer
 from adjacent uses, the Court concludes that the youth camp will be compatible with the adjacent
 uses and with surrounding and nearby management uses and will not detract from the ability of
 cities and special districts in the area to provide their services.

                  An opponent of the proposal, Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart, identifies recreational use
 of the   John Day River and public use of BLM land as uses in the area that should be considered
 in determining compatibility of the proposed camp.     First, he claims there will be visual and
 noise pollution from the proposed sports complex that will impact recreational use of the John
 Day River. In terms of protection provided to the John Day River by the Comprehensive Plan,
 the John Day River Scenic Waterway is a designated Goal 5 resousce. The Comprehensive Plan
 implements its protection of the John Day River through the State Scenic Rivers Act and the
 Environmental Protection District of the Land Use and Development Ordinance (LUDO). Under
 those regulations certain types of development are limited or prohibited within 1/4 mile of the
 river. OAR 736-040-065 and LUDO 3.910 (Division 7 - Natural Areas Overlay). All uses
 allowed by this application will be consistent with the State Scenic Rivers Act and the
 Environmental Protection District. The sports complex is in an existing structure that is located
 over 2.4 miles from the John Day River and is outside of the John Day River Scenic Waterway
 buffer zone.

                 Under the Goal 5 protection provisions of the comprehensive plan and as a
 practical matter, the camp uses allowed by the comprehensive plan amendment are located miles
 from the river. Any recreational activities conducted near the river are not specifically part of
 this approval and may be subject to future land use review, if necessary under the EFU zoning.
 As noted above, the original application included an area adjacent to the river. The original
 application was amended to delete the area near the river and limit the Exception Area to the area
 more than 2 miles from the river.

                  Second, Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart claims that hunting uses on BLM lands will be
 negatively impacted by the proposed development. Hunting uses occur on BLM lands in various
 remote areas of the Big Muddy Ranch, not within the developed central ranch area. In addition,
 most hunting occurs in the fall, well after the peak summer camping season. Young Life stated
 at one of the hearings that it will take steps, such as installing adequate fencing or developing

                                                   Ly                  ae3lS Gsm
camp regulations, to ensure that campers do not enter BLM land. Further, the area proposed as
the area for concentrated camp usage is located in the designated Development Area internal to
the Exception Area. There are lands principally containing infrastructure and utility facilities
surrounding the Development Area which serve to buffer the camp area from other lands,
including BLM lands,

               4,      OAR 660-14-040(d)

                OAR 660-14-040(d) requires that an appropriate level of public facilities are
likely to be provided in a timely and efficient manner. This is demonstrated by the findings
above related to public facilities and services.

               5.      OAR 660-14-040(e)

              OAR 660-14-040(e) requires that the development is coordinated with
comprehensive plans of affected jurisdictions. In this case, the affected jurisdiction is Wasco
County because the entire exception is within Wasco County.

                The coordination requirement is satisfied by the findings of Goal 2 coordination
and the findings below which demonstrate that the Exception is consistent with the relevant
provisions of the Plan.

                 The Plan contains a series of goals under separate subject matter headings, each of
which is separated into (1) policies and (2) implementation. The PYan is intended to “establish a
single, coordinated set of policies which will act to provide for orderly development of Wasco
county” and “give a direction to planning, establish priorities for action, serve as a basis for
future decisions, provide a standard by which progress can be measured, and promote a sense of
community for an improved quality of life.”

                Wasco County planning obligations potentially relevant to the Young Life project
were identified by determining which policies would be materially affected by the proposed
development. The analysis evaluated these policies against the facts of the proposed
development to determine whether the policies are furthered, hindered or not affected. The
relevant plan policies are presented first, along with the facts that demonstrate whether the
particular planning obligation has been met.

       A.      Citizen Involvement

               The citizen involvement goal is “to develop and maintain a citizen involvement
program that ensures the opportunity for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning
process.” Plan page 275. This goal is carried out by three Policies, one of which is relevant to
this decision. Policy 3 provides: “Encourage involvement of citizens and property owners in the
land use planning process.” The relevant Implementation Measure is (C) which provides:
“When revising or adopting the Comprehensive Plan, there shall be a minimum of two public
hearings held within the affected planning area.” In this case, the County Planning Commission
held two hearings and the County Court held two hearings in conformance with this Policy.

                                                 29     6976          2, b3(        so     ye
                One procedural issue relating to citizen involvement was raised by an opponent of
the proposal. Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart asserted that the County committed procedural error by
closing the record on a Saturday and requiring that submittals be post marked by Saturday. The
County did not commit procedural error. At the request of a party, the County held the record
open for 10 days to allow comment on the record. It is the County Court’s practice to close the
record on the last day, even if that day is a Saturday. State law only requires that the record be
held open seven days after the initial evidentiary hearing. ORS 197.763(6)(c). The record was
held open for ten days and thus the statutory obligation was met.

                Even if the County committed a procedural error, the opponents were not
substantially prejudiced. First, the opponents have been afforded numerous opportunities to
comment on the application, both at the Planning Commission and County Court stages.
Second, prior to the close of the record, the opponents contacted the County Planning Office to
determine when the record closed and submitted over ten pages of additional comments before
the record closed. Nothing submitted by the opponents was rejected as being received after the
close of the record.

       B.      Land Use Planning

                The Land Use Planning Goal is to establish a process and policy framework as a
basis for land use decisions and ensure an adequate factual base for such decisions. This goal is
carried out by four policies, two of which are relevant to this decision. Policy 2 provides that the
Comprehensive plan must be consistent with Statewide goals. Congistency with statewide goals
is discussed above. Policy 3 provides that the Comprehensive plan shall be reviewed
periodically for necessary revisions “to keep pace with changes in the physical, environmental,
social and economic character of the County.” Implementation Measure C provides that plan
amendments shall be carried out under the revisions process set forth in the Comprehensive Plan.
The revisions process is set forth in the Comprehensive Plan. The revisions process set forth at
pages 225-228 was followed by the applicant in proposing the comprehensive plan amendments
and by the County in reviewing the amendments. The applicant, a private property owner,
initiated the amendment, paid the required fee and addressed the “General Criteria” in its
application and supplemental submittals to the record. The County followed the notice and
hearing procedures in part by holding Planning Commission hearings, forwarding a Planning
Commission recommendation to the County Court and holding County Court hearings.

       C,      Agricultural Lands

               The Young Life camp site is designated Exclusive Farm Use by the
Comprehensive Plan and is zoned accordingly. This decision approves a redesignation of the site
to the A-R plan designation and zone with a Limited Use overlay.

               Goal 3 is to “preserve and maintain agricultural lands.” Policy 2 directs the
County to “Encourage better management of all agricultural lands.” Pursuant to that policy,
Implementation Measure B. provides that “[nJon-farm uses permitted within farm use zones
adopted pursuant to O.R.S. 215.213 should be minimized to allow for maximum agricultural
productivity.” Opponents of the project proposed that the exception could be added to the list of

                                                 ® Oposerlst)
permitted uses in EFU rather than rezoning the property to A-R.    Adding to the list of permitted
uses would not only run afoul of state law as discussed above, but would hinder Implementation
Measure B. In furtherance of this policy, the County should rezone the exception area rather
than allow additional uses in farm use zones.

               Policy 4 provides that “[w]here rural agricultural land is to be converted to
urbanizable land, the conversion is to be completed in an orderly and efficient manner.” Since
the land subject to the proposal is agricultural land that will be converted to urban land, this
Policy is applicable. Implementation Measure A. requires that the conversion be in compliance
with Goal No. 14, Policy 1, A-E.   Compliance with that goal is discussed below.
Implementation Measure B. provides that extension of services must be appropriate for the
proposed urban use. As discussed above, evidence in the record demonstrates that appropriate
levels of services are available or will be made available to serve the proposed use, including
water, sanitary sewer, roads, fire, police and schools. Implementation Measure (E) provides that
“normal agricultural practices shall not be restricted by non-agricultural interests within
agricultural areas.” The Big Muddy Ranch is currently used for grazing of livestock. Use of the
Exception Area for camp purposes will not restrict normal grazing practices.

       D.      Forest Lands

               None of the Young Life camp site is designated forest land. As a result, the
policies and implementation measures of the Forest Land goal do not apply.
                                            .   °                   a

       E,      Open Spaces, Scenic and Historic Areas and Natural Resources

                The purpose of Goal No. 5 is “to conserve open space and protect natural and
scenic resources.” This goal is carried out by eight policies, three of which are relevant to this
decision. Policy 3 relates to protection of the John Day River Scenic Waterway as a natural and
open space area with consideration for recreation and agriculture. The Exception Area, as
originally proposed, would have included land within the John Day River Scenic Waterway.
However, based on comments from other participants in the proceedings, the applicant
eliminated an Exception Area along the John Day River from the proposal. As a result, the
purpose of Policy 3 to protect and maintain the John Day River Scenic Waterway is furthered.

                Policy 7 requires the County to encourage land use and land management
practices that contribute to preservation and enhancement of fish and wildlife resources.
Implementation Measures (A) and (D) require the county to identify and protect all wildlife
habitats (through application of the Environmental Protection District Overlay and setbacks in
riparian habitats) and all rare and endangered plants and animals. The Court reviewed its Goal 5
inventory and determined that no wildlife habitat or rare and endangered plants and animals have
been identified within the approved Exception Area.

               Policy 8 requires the County to preserve historic, cultural and archeological areas.
No such areas are identified in the County’s Goal 5 inventory of historic, cultural or
archeological sites as being located within the Exception Area. As a result, the proposal will not
hinder the County’s compliance with this policy.

                                                    31   6°G7026>              (59)            0139452.05
       F,      Air, Land and Water Quality

                Goal 6 is “to maintain and improve the quality of the air, water and land resources
of the County.” Certain implementation measures under each of the four policies that carry out
Goal 6 are relevant to the county’s decision. Policy 1 encourages preservation of the quantity
and quality of air, water and land resources. Implementation Measure (B) requires that the solid
waste collection and disposal ordinance be enforced. Adoption of the comprehensive plan
amendment will not hinder enforcement of that ordinance. Implementation Measure (C) directs
the County to preserve riparian vegetation through the Environmental Protection District overlay
or by setbacks. The Exception Area is not overlain with the Environmental Protection Overlay.
All new structures within the Exception Area are conditional uses and thus will be subject to
conditions protecting any natural riparian vegetation. Policy 3 directs the County to “maintain
quantity and quality of water in compliance with state and federal standards.” The only
Implementation Measure applicable to quasi-judicial applications is (E) which provides that
“ft]he adequacy of the Ground water supplies and their quality shall be a major consideration in
all development.” Evidence in the record provided by the applicant demonstrates that ground
water wells will provide an adequate supply of high quality groundwater to serve proposed uses.
No credible evidence to the contrary has been presented.

       G.      Are     ubject   to   Natural Disasters    and   Hazar

                None of the proposed Exception Area is located in an area identified in the
Comprehensive Plan as subject to natural disasters or hazards. As g result, Goal 7 and its
policies are not impacted by this decision.

       H.      Recreational Needs

                Goal No. 8 requires the County to “satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of
Wasco County and visitors.” Of the three policies that carry out this goal, one is applicable to
this project. Policy 2 provides: “develop and maintain a variety of recreational sites and open
spaces adjacent to population concentrations to adequately meet the County’s recreational needs.
Development of the Young Life project will further the County’s policy of developing:a variety
of recreation sites to meet County recreational needs. In addition, Implementation Measure D
provides that “aesthetic values in existing and future and recreational sites should be preserved
and enhanced.” The proposed camp development will have beneficial impacts on the aesthetic
values in the area. The camp use will utilize existing structures and ensure their upkeep and
maintenance. Any new structures would undergo conditional use review and are subject to the
limitations of the exceptions statement, Exhibit C and the limited use overlay, Exhibit E.

                The text discussing recreational needs for the County provides a rough list of
recreation needs including additional camp sites, biking trails, hiking trails and parks. The Plan
states that “final recreational land use designations are generally made by property owners and
local citizens.” Because of the Plan’s dependence on private property owners to meet these
recreation needs, the redesignation of this property to the agricultural recreational zone furthers
the County’s recreation goals.

                                                         » 6qnava&9)
       I.      Economy of the State

              This plan goal requires Wasco County “to diversify and improve the economy of
Wasco County.” Most of Wasco County’s rural economy is based on agriculture and forestry.

                 Conversion of 1,360 acres of range land within the Big Muddy Ranch for use as a
youth and family camp will not hinder the County’s policy of maintaining agriculture and
forestry as a basis of the economy. To the contrary, by providing recreational uses and utilizing
local services for construction and supply needs for the proposed camp, the proposed use will
support diversification of Wasco County’s economy in support of Goal No. 9. In addition,
Policy 5 provides that “tourism in Wasco County will be supported and encouraged.” The
development of the youth and family camp will support policy of encouraging tourism. Campers
and their families will have an opportunity to experience the high recreation and historic
attributes of the County and will be encouraged to return to the area. Implementation Measure C
provides that “additional parks, overnight camping areas, and other recreational areas should be
provided when needed to encourage tourism in the County.” The provision of the camp and
associated recreation areas and overnight lodging support this implementation measure.

       J.      Housing

                Goal No. 10 provides for the housing needs of the citizens of Wasco County.
This goal is largely inapplicable because the Exception Area and proposed development does not
now provide housing opportunities and the Young Life camp will offer only limited permanent
housing for your own staff. The Court finds that the County’s ability to satisfy Goal No. 10 is
not hindered by the proposed comprehensive plan amendments.

       K.      Public Facilities and Services

                 Goal No. 11 is “to plan and develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of
public facilities and services to serve as a frame work for urban and rural development.” As
discussed above under Goal 11, the Court finds that public facilities and services are adequate to
serve the proposed site. Evidence is on the record regarding the adequacy of school, fire,
medical and police services, water, sewer, transportation, health and power facilities.   The Court
finds that this is substantial evidence demonstrating compliance with Goal No. 11. Plan Policy 1
requires an appropriate level of fire protection for rural areas. As a condition of approval, Young
Life must provide a fire suppression plan for the proposed camp. The Court finds that the fire
suppression plan will ensure that an appropriate level of fire protection is provided for the camp.

                Policy 2 requires the provision of an appropriate level of police protection for
rural areas. While this is largely directed at the County, levels of police protection are relevant to
the appropriate level of development in rural areas. The Court finds there is evidence in the
record to demonstrate an adequate level of police protection for the proposed camp. The Wasco
County Sheriff’s office has confirmed its availability to handle services for the camp and the
adequacy of its services for camp needs.

                                                         Lape                3(9)""
              Policy 4 is to “encourage adequate convenience school facilities for the citizens of
Wasco County.” As discussed at hearings before the County Court, the school superintendent for
the Madras School District, which would accommodate any students living year round at the
Young Life camp, stated that school facilities are adequate to accommodate such students.

               Finally, Policy 5 provides that “future provision of public facilities and services
shall be adequate to meet the needs of Wasco County’s citizens and be provided efficiently and
economically.” Implementation Measure C provides that increased an efficient emergency
medical service shall be encouraged in rural areas. Young Life has stated that it will have
emergency medical staff present at the camp at all times. The Court finds this to be substantial
evidence that emergency medical services will be adequate for the camp. Implementation
Measure H provides that facilities and services be appropriate but limited to the needs and
requirements of the area to be served. The Court finds that Young Life has demonstrated that the
water, sewer and other utility services provided for the proposed level of development at the
camp are appropriate for the needs of the camp.

       L.      Transportation

                Goal No. 12 is to provide and encourage a safe convenient and economic
transportation system. Of the four policies that carry out this goal, one is applicable to this
development. Policy 1 directs the County to develop and maintain an adequate County road
system. As discussed in letters from the County Public Works Director and ODOT, the existing
County road system is adequate to accommodate levels of traffic expected from the Young Life
development. In addition, a condition of approval requires that, if the camp creates more than a
30% increase over anticipated traffic levels, an additional transportation plan must be developed.
The County finds that evidence in the record demonstrates that the County road system is
adequate to support the proposed use and maintain a safe convenient and economic
transportation system.

       M.      Energy Conservation

                The planned energy conservation goal requires the County to “conserve energy.”
This goal is to be implemented through strategies including working with state and federal
agencies to identify renewable energy resources to reduce consumption of non-renewable
resources of energy, to minimize energy consumption through the use of zoning and subdivision
standards to diversify the transportation system and to encourage use of renewable energy. The
camp will contribute toward energy conservation by ensuring that most transportation within the
camp area will be by bicycle, walking or horseback. In addition, recycling of glass, bottles and
other recyclable products will be encouraged at the camp. The Court finds that the camp use will
contribute to the County’s energy conservation goal.

       N.      Urbanization

               Urbanization is “to provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural to
urban use.” Of the five policies that carry out this goal, Policy 1 is the only one applicable to the

                                                  « Voq9303(S 7) wow
approved development. Policy 1 provides that “conversion of rural agricultural land to
urbanizable land shall be based upon consideration of each of the following factors:

               (a)     Environmental, energy, social and economic consequences;

               (b)     Demonstrated need consistent with other goals;

               (c)     Availability of alternative suitable locations for the requested use;

               (d)     A compatibility of the proposed use with related agricultural land; and

               (e)     The retention of Class I, II, HI, 1V, V and VI soils in farm use.

                These factors were considered as part of the reasons exception to Goals 3, 11 and
 14 under OAR 660-14-040. The County has considered each of those factors and has determined
that the proposed site should be converted to urban land. The Court believes that the reasons
justifying conversion of the land from agricultural use to urban use are compelling and based on
consideration of these factors has approved the requested exception request converting the
Exception Area lands from agricultural uses.

        E.     Wasco County Comprehensive Plan

               I.      Section XI(VI1)

                 Section XI (VIII) of the Plan identifies the general ctiteria which must be
considered for approval of an amendment to the Plan. The Court interprets the Comprehensive
Plan as requiring only consideration of these general criteria. In other words, the criteria of
Section XI are not mandatory approval criteria. As a result, even if certain of the criteria are not
satisfied by a particular application, the Court may determine that because other criteria are
satisfied, approval of an amendment to the Plan is justified. In this case, evidence in the record
demonstrated that the six general criteria are satisfied by the comprehensive plan amendment.

                 Opponents of the amendment have asserted that certain of the general criteria are
not satisfied, in particular, (VIIJ)(3) and (VIID)(5). As discussed below, the Court disagrees with
the opponents and finds that all of the criteria are met. However, even if criteria (VIII)(3) and
(VIID(5) were found not to be met, the Court finds that its decision relating to compliance with
statewide goals ((VIID(1) and (VIIJ)(2)) in addition to (VIID)(4) and (6) warrants approval of the
comprehensive plan amendment. The Court finds that factors (VIII(3)) and (VIII(5)) relating to
mistake and inventory change are generally more appropriately a determination in legislative
plan amendments which often include policy deliberations of a broader scale. For a quasi-
judicial plan change of limited scope, the Court finds that the other factors are compelling and
warrant this plan amendment. In any event, because the Court considered each of the factors,
Section XI(VIID is satisfied.

                                                 S CPyrater (Don
Compliance with Goals          (VOD

                  This requirement is satisfied by consideration of the findings documenting
compliance with the applicable Statewide Planning Goals, above, and the findings documenting
compliance with the applicable Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies above.        The Court finds
that this general criterion is met.

Compliance with        Spirit and   Intent   of   Goals (VID2

                 Comprehensive Plan Section XI (VIID(2) requires that the County Court consider
whether there is “substantial proof that such change shall not be detrimental to the spirit and
intent of such goals.” The Court interprets the term “such goals” to refer to the prior general
criterion in subsection (VIII(1), which requires consideration of compliance with the Statewide
Land Use Goals. As a result, consideration of subsection (VIII)(2) requires only that the County
consider the Statewide Goals. Reference to any county goals under this criterion is unnecessary.
The County’s findings need not, and in fact, should not discuss the Comprehensive Plan
provisions regarding “unforeseen circumstances” that are discussed in Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart’s
letter. The County corrected the applicant’s initial interpretation of this factor and informed the
applicant that the findings under this factor should address only the Statewide Goals. In fact,
subsequent drafts of the findings that were included in the record delete any reference to
“unforeseen circumstances” and focus solely on the Statewide Goals.

                The Court finds that the approved exception and associated text and map
amendments are authorized and appropriately justified in accordance with the goals. The Court
finds that the Plan amendment is not detrimental to the spirit and intent of the goals.

Change in Character or a Mistake (VIII(G)

               This criteria requires that the Court consider whether a change in the character of
the neighborhood or a mistake in the original comprehensive plan can be demonstrated.

                The Court has considered evidence from the applicant and opponents regarding
changes in the character of the neighborhood. While there is substantial evidence of a change in
the character of the overall area, the character of the neighborhood surrounding the subject
property has not changed significantly.

                The Court also considered whether there is a mistake in the original
comprehensive plan and finds that the applicant has adequately demonstrated a mistake. The
Court interprets “mistake” in this context to mean a failure to plan or provide for general or
identified needs in the Plan. The mistake identified by the applicant is the Plan’s failure to
provide for recreational needs under Goal 8. The Plan recognizes the need for recreational
opportunities such as campsites away from Interstate 84, indoor pools, walking trails, multiple
use trails, ballfields, and bike trails. However, the Plan does not specifically designate land to
accommodate these uses. This can be viewed as an error in the original Plan. This mistake is
remedied, to an extent, by the approval of land use proposals which will provide these

                                                          * 6G70363L 59)
recreational opportunities.    The Young Life proposal will provide swimming pools, campsites,
and trails like those described in the Plan.

               One of the opponents, Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart, asserts that the failure to designate
land for needed recreational opportunities is not a mistake. When making this assertion, he
ignores the County’s obligation under Statewide Goal 8, Recreation, to “satisfy the recreational
needs of the citizens of the state and visitors and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of
necessary recreational facilities including destination resorts.” The Comprehensive Plan
explicitly recognizes the need for recreational opportunities, such as campsites away from I-84,
swimming pools, walking and multiple use trails. However, the Plan fails to ensure that there is
adequate land with land use designations allowing such recreational uses. In fact, the Plan
improperly delegates responsibility for meeting recreational needs by stating that “recreational
land use designations are generally made by property owners and local citizens.” Plan, Page 144.
Because the County is required to provide for the recreational needs of citizens and visitors under
Goal 8, failure to do so is a mistake. This mistake can be addressed by designating additional
land for recreational uses, including the proposed youth and family camp which will serve to
satisfy recreational needs for Wasco County citizens and others.

Public Need for    Safe   Surroundings   (VIID(4

               This plan criteria requires that the Court consider factors which relate to the
public need for healthful, safe, and aesthetic surroundings and conditions are met.

                The Court finds that the camp specifically provides for the safe enjoyment of the
County’s aesthetic surroundings. Approving the amendment to the Plan will allow Young Life
to convert the Exception Area to facilitate various recreational opportunities. These activities
will be supervised by adults and conducted in a safe and healthful manner.

Change in Inventories XI(VIID)(5)

                Comprehensive Plan Section XI (VIII)(S5) requires the County to consider whether
there is proof of change in the inventories originally developed. Mr. Silvertooth-Stewart does
not appear to dispute that there has been a change in the inventories. Rather, he asserts that the
Exception Area was part of the County’s original inventory of agricultural lands.

                The history of the development of the Comprehensive Plan demonstrates that
there have been changes in the original inventories of agricultural land. The Comprehensive
Plan was adopted by ordinance on February 3, 1982. On April 27, 1983, the County adopted
amendments to the Plan including inventories, plan policies and implementation measures that
reflect the incorporation of Rajneeshpuram.

                These amendments were acknowledged by LCDC. LCDC’s continuance order
related to Rajneeshpuram required the County in 1992 to adopt an agricultural plan designation
and EFU zoning for the Rajneeshpuram land. As a result, the County’s inventory of agricultural
land changed when the Rajneesh land was rezoned to EFU because the inventory in 1983
reflected the incorporation of Rajneeshpuram. The county’s agricultural lands inventory has

                                                   "Pinos (ss
been changed since originally developed.      In 1992, after adoption of the Plan, 2,385 acres of land
were rezoned to A-1(80)EFU.       This added new lands to the County’s agricultural lands
inventory.

                 Other aspects of the agricultural lands inventory have also changed. The original
comprehensive plan refers to Soil Conservation Service maps regarding soil capability
classifications. These maps have been updated and reflect more current information about soil
capability and acres per AMU. These maps were adopted by ordinance in 1996 as part of
amendments to the County’s EFU ordinance that were discussed in the original application and
reflect a change in the inventory of agricultural lands. See adopted EFU ordinance (now at
LUDO 3.210) and accompanying maps.

Factual Basis XI(VII1\(6)

               This criteria requires that the Court consider whether revisions are based on
adequate facts to support the Plan amendment.

               The Court finds that the public need and justification has been established in the
application and supporting documentation and that an adequate factual basis exists to support the
Plan amendment.

        F,     LUDO    Criteria

               1.    Section 9.020(B)(1).       This criterion requires*that a zone change conform
with the Comprehensive Plan.

               The Court finds that the zone change which implements the A-R comprehensive
plan designation, conforms with the Plan as discussed above.

               2.      Section 9.020(B)(2).     This criterion requires that the site be suitable for
the proposed use.

                 The Court finds that the recreational uses allowed in the zone are of an outdoor
nature and require a large area to accommodate an isolated camping experience. The 65,000
acres of the ranch which will be maintained in agricultural uses provide an adequate buffer to
isolate recreational uses from neighboring agricultural uses. The Court finds that the large
expanse of the site minimizes any potential conflicts between recreational uses and agriculture.
The Court also finds that the site’s prior use has resulted in the investment in building
improvements and service facilities. The proposal is suitable to the site because it uses the
existing structures in a way which will not be detrimental to agricultural uses of the surrounding
property. Therefore, the Court concludes that the site is suitable for the proposed use.

               3,      Section 9.020(B)(3).     This criterion requires that there has been a
conscious consideration of the public health, safety and welfare in applying the specific zoning
regulations.

                                                   » PGn2e3s6®
               The Court finds that the recreational opportunities provided by the zone change
will benefit youth from the County and from the region. The camp offers supervised recreatio
                                                                                             nal
opportunities which enhance the county’s public health, safety and welfare because outdoor
recreational opportunities are beneficial to the well-being of the youth and provide an
opportunity to enjoy the scenic wonder of the high desert environment. For these
                                                                                    reasons,   the
Court finds that the public health, safety, and welfare have been considered in the zone change.

                                              »~         f43e3 (s4)                      0139452.05
                                                                                     EXHIBIT C
Big Muddy Exception Statement

                The Big Muddy Exception is a reasons exception for 1360 acres of the Big
Muddy Ranch to allow use of the Exception Area for a youth/family camp. Consistent with
OAR 660-04-018 (3), the reasons exception approved by Ordinance No. 97-001, incorporated
herein by reference, adopts comprehensive plan and zone designations to limit the uses and
activities to only those uses and activities justified by the exception. If Wasco County were to
change the types or intensities of uses within the Big Muddy Exception Area, a new reasons
exception would be required. (OAR 660-04-18(3)(b)).

Description of Exception Boundary and Development Area

               The Big Muddy Exception Area consists of 1360 acres along Muddy Creek within
the approximate 66,000 acres included in the boundaries of the Big Muddy Ranch in
southeastern Wasco County and northeastern Jefferson County. The Exception Area is
approximately 12 miles southeast of Antelope.

                 The boundaries of the Exception Area are shown on Exhibit A-2, entitled
“Exception Boundary and Development Area.” Within the 1360 acre exception, a 580 acre
Development Area is depicted. The Development Area is presently developed with various
buildings, other improvements, roads and utility infrastructure. It is the portion of the Exception
Area to be used extensively for camp purposes and is the only area in the Exception Area which
can accommodate new buildings for camp purposes. The Big Muddy limited use overlay
requires all new buildings to be located in the Development Area. Some utility infrastructure
(water and sewer) are located in the Exception Area outside the Development Area and this
infrastructure will be used, maintained and operated for camp purposes. Various recreational
activities of the camp will be located in the Development Area and Exception Area.

                The youth/family camp will utilize some of the existing structures in the
Development Area; other buildings will be demolished and some new buildings will be
developed for the camp. Existing water and sewer systems located in the Exception Area will be
operated for the camp. This Exception Statement describes the scope of the exception approved
for youth/family camp and, together with Ordinance No. 97-001, establishes the limitations or
restrictions on uses in the Exception Area and the Development Area.

Scope of Exception

                The approved reasons exception for the Big Muddy Ranch Exception allows use
of the Exception Area for a youth/family camp. As proposed by Young Life and approved by
Wasco County, the camp proposed at the Big Muddy Exception Area will accommodate up to
1000 campers during the summer months, plus the necessary counselors and staff. It will operate
year round, but the most intensive use occurs in the summer when the camp accommodates
middle and high school youths in summer camps.       During the remainder of the calendar year, the
camp is used less intensively but is available for retreats and conferences for families, adults or

                                                  | Pre vsisiy™
youths.   These off-peak season uses may serve educational purposes, retreats or staff training.
                The youth/family camp will be developed in phases. Each phase will
accommodate up to 500 campers, plus staff. The conceptual plan map approved as part of the
Exception identifies the main components of the camp. Young Life proposes to utilize some of
the existing buildings for camp purposes. These are generally depicted on the conceptual plan.
In addition, Young Life intends to remove or decommission numerous buildings and to provide
some new structures necessary for camp operations. The conceptual plan identifies the existing
building inventory, the proposed uses of the existing buildings, the buildings proposed for
removal, and the new buildings planned for the camp. The uses authorized by this Exception for
the youth/family camp include accommodations for campers, staff and guests, dining, meeting
and conference facilities, administrative and support offices or work areas including maintenance
or shop areas, camp activity centers, clubrooms, pool or sports activity buildings and associated
recreational facilities and other similar uses designed for youth/family camp operations. As
noted on the conceptual plan, these uses have been identified in the Exception and are authorized
under the Big Muddy Overlay (Section 3.930(B) and (C).

                 The conceptual plan is not intended to be a binding document regarding the
development of the camp. However, it does present the general parameters of the proposed
youth/family camp in terms of the location of principal camp components, such as dormitory or
staff housing areas, sports or recreational amenities and dining, activity, or conference facilities.
Any new building will require a conditional use permit under the terms of the Big Muddy
Limited Use Overlay. The approval of a conditional use will be based on a demonstration that
the location, size, design and operational characteristics of the proposed use are compatible with
the surrounding area and the approved exception. Because any new building will require a
conditional use approval and the review process for a conditional use permit involves a
determination of location, size, design and operational! characteristics, the County can consider
whether a proposed new building is compatible with the approved exception. As a result, the
conceptual plan need not presently identify each exact new potential addition to the youth/family
camp. In addition, the approved exception requires that the youth/family camp be developed,
maintained and operated in a manner consistent with the exception. This means that a user or
operator of the youth/family camp must employ similar camp operations to those approved by
the Exception.

                The Exception authorizes the establishment and operation of a youth/family camp
consistent with the approvals provided for in Ordinance No. 97-001, including the referenced
Exhibits A to G. Exhibit B, the Findings and Conclusions, describes the nature, size and general
operation of the proposed camp. Exhibit E sets forth the provisions of the Big Muddy Limited
Use Overlay. The purpose of the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay is to assure that the
development and operation of the camp is consistent with the purpose and intent of this
Exception and limits uses and activities allowed in the underlying A-R zone to only those uses
and activities justified by this Exception. By this reference, the Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay
is incorporated into this Exception.

Reasons Justifying the Exception

               Consistent with OAR 660-04-020, this Exception and the accompanying
referenced documents include the justification for the Exception and incorporates the Exception
                                                  2
                                                        OF             363        (S?)        0140496.02
                                                                                             facts
into the County’s comprehensive plan. The reasons justifying the exception including the
                                                                                                   to
and assumptions used as the basis for determining that a state policy in a goal should not apply
the Exception Area, the amount of land for the proposed use, and a rationale   of why the use
requires a location on resource land are included by the reference to and incorporation of
Ordinance No. 97-001 and its other exhibits.

                                                  Vep303 (54)
                                                                                              0140496.02
                                                                               EXHIBIT D

Comprehensive Plan Policy Amendment -- Purposes Statement

        The text of the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan is amended as set forth below by the
adoption of a purposes statement for the Agricultural - Recreational Plan designation.

       On page 233, add the following:

       “A gricultural-Recreational
               Purpose:    To provide areas for outdoor recreation and
                           to allow controlled growth to continue in
                           existing rural unincorporated communities.”

                                                   L490 soa(s¢)
                                                                                        EXHIBIT E

                                          Amendments to
                         Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance

            1,   Section 1.090

                 Section 1.090 is hereby amended to add the following new definition for a

youth/family camp:

                 “Youth/Family Camp -- An area devoted to facilities and equipment for camp

purposes for youths and adults, including swimming pools, tennis courts, recreational fields and

facilities for meetings, conferences or retreats, including facilities for eating and sleeping

accommodations that are provided in connection with the camp.”

           2.    Section 3.230(B)

                 Section 3.230(B) is hereby amended as follows:

                 “B.   Permitted Uses

                          15. Youth/family camp.”

           3.    Section 3.700

                 Section 3.700, The Environmental Protection District is hereby amended to add

the following new purpose statement:

                 “M.   To assure that properties subject to specific limited use overlay zones (LU)

are subject to county ordinance provisions.”

       4.        Section 3.710

                 Section 3.710 is hereby amended to add Division 9, The Big Muddy Limited Use

Overlay:

                 “I, Division 9 - Big Muddy limited use overlay.”

                                                    ' Pomseolss)
5.   Section 3.930

     Section 3.930 is hereby amended as follows:

     “A,    Purpose

            The purpose of the Big Muddy limited use overlay is to assure that the
            development and operation of a youth/family camp in the Big Muddy
            exception area (adopted as part of the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan
            by Ordinance No. 97-001) occurs in a manner that is consistent with the
            purpose and intent of the Big Muddy Exception (“Exception”) and limits
            uses and activities allowed in the underlying Agricultural-Recreational (A-
            R) Zone to only those uses and activities which are justified in the
            Exception adopted as part of the County’s plan by Ordinance No. 97-001.

            Permitted Uses

                      Use of buildings existing on the date of adoption of this Section
                      consistent with the Exception.

                      Renovation and relocation of buildings existing on the date of
                      adoption of this Section consistent with the Exception to the extent
                      that the renovation or relocation does not increase the building
                      footprint.                          -

            Conditional Uses

                      The following are Conditional Uses in the Big Muddy limited use
                      overlay:

                      a.     New buildings for youth/family camp purposes.

                      b,     Expansion of existing buildings for youth/family camp
                             purposes.

                      Approval Criteria

                      Approval of a Conditional Use in the Big Muddy limited use
                      overlay shall be based on a demonstration that the following four
                      criteria are met:

                      a.     Taking into account location, size, design and operational
                             characteristics of the proposed use, the proposal is
                             compatible with the surrounding area and the Exception.

                                                                                   0140454.01

                                             $903            62859)
           b.       The proposed use will not exceed or significantly burden
                    public facilities and services available to the area,
                    including, but not limited to: roads, fire and police
                    protection, sewer and water facilities, telephone and
                    electrical services, or solid waste disposal facilities.

           c.       The proposed use will not significantly reduce or impair
                    sensitive wildlife habitat or riparian vegetation along
                    streambanks and will not subject areas to excessive soil
                    erosion.

            d.      The proposal will not significantly increase the cost of or
                    cause a significant change in accepted farm or forest
                    practices on surrounding lands devoted to or available for
                    farm or forest use.

            Conditions

           Such reasonable conditions as are necessary to ensure the
           compatibility of a conditional use to surrounding properties and to
           fulfill the purposes of the Big Muddy limited use overlay may be
           imposed in approving a conditional use permit application.

           Applicability   of Conditional Use Review Standards

           Conditional uses in the Big Muddy limited use overlay shall be
           subject only to the following sections of Chapter 5, Conditional
           Use Review:     Sections 5.040, 5.050 and 5.060.

D.   Development Standards

     1.    Lighting

           Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded and
           hooded in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto
           adjacent properties and roadways.

            Setbacks

           No new structure other than fences or signs shall be located closer
           than twenty-five (25) feet from the right-of-way of a public road.

           Height

           Maximum height for all buildings shall be 50 feet.

                                                                         0140454.01

                                     J) 9103 6WS4))
E.   Limitations

     1.     No partitioning or subdividing shall be allowed in the Big Muddy
            limited use overlay.

     2.     No temporary housing shall be permitted in the Big Muddy limited
            use overlay, except as necessary to house construction
            personnel/workers during construction and remodeling on site.

     3,     All new structures shall be located within the Development Area as
            provided for in the Exception.

     4,     Uses in the Big Muddy limited use overlay shall be limited to the
            youth/family camp as provided for in the Exception.”

                              ' Prose3(s2)
                                                                                       EXHIBIT F

Section 3.930 Division 9 - Big Muddy Limited Use Overlay

      A.      Purpose

              The purpose of the Big Muddy limited use overlay is to assure that the
              development and operation of a youth/family camp in the Big Muddy exception
              area (adopted as part of the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan by Ordinance No.
              97-001) occurs in a manner that is consistent with the purpose and intent of the
              Big Muddy Exception (“Exception”) and limits uses and activities allowed in the
              underlying Agricultural-Recreational (A-R) Zone to only those uses and activities
              which are justified in the Exception adopted as part of the County’s plan by
              Ordinance No. 97-001.

              Permitted Uses

              1.        Use of buildings existing on the date of adoption of this Section consistent
                        with the Exception.
              2.        Renovation and relocation of buildings existing on the date of adoption of
                        this Section consistent with the Exception to the extent that the renovation
                        or relocation does not increase the building footprint.
              Conditional Uses

              l.        The following are Conditional Uses in the Big Muddy limited use overlay:
                        a.     New buildings for youth/family camp purposes.

                        b.     Expansion of existing buildings for youth/family camp purposes.

              2.        Approval Criteria
                        Approval of a Conditional Use in the Big Muddy limited use overlay shall
                        be based on a demonstration that the following four criteria are met:

                        a.     Taking into account location, size, design and operational
                               characteristics of the proposed use, the proposal is compatible with
                               the surrounding area and the Exception.

                        b.     The proposed use will not exceed or significantly burden public
                               facilities and services available to the area, including, but not
                               limited to: roads, fire and police protection, sewer and water
                               facilities, telephone and electrical services, or solid waste disposal
                               facilities.

                        C.     The proposed use will not significantly reduce or impair sensitive
                               wildlife habitat or riparian vegetation along streambanks and will
                               not subject areas to excessive soil erosion.

                                                                                              0139610.01

                                                  |     J40303 ( 57)
            d.       The proposal will not significantly increase the cost of or cause a
                     significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on
                     surrounding lands devoted to or available for farm or forest use.

     3.     Conditions
            Such reasonable conditions as are necessary to ensure the compatibility of
            a conditional use to surrounding properties and to fulfill the purposes of
            the Big Muddy limited use overlay may be imposed in approving a
            conditional use permit application.

     4,     Applicability of Conditional Use Review Standards
            Conditional uses in the Big Muddy limited use overlay shal! be subject
            only to the following sections of Chapter 5, Conditional Use Review:
            Sections 5.040, 5.050 and 5.060.

D.   Development Standards
     1.     Lighting
            Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded and hooded in
            a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent
            properties and roadways.

     2.     Setbacks                                    e

            No new structure other than fences or signs shall be located closer than
            twenty-five (25) feet from the right-of-way of a public road.

     3,     Height
            Maximum height for all buildings shall be 50 feet.

E.   Limitations
     I.     No partitioning or subdividing shall be allowed in the Big Muddy limited
            use overlay.
     2.     No temporary housing shall be permitted in the Big Muddy limited use
            overlay, except as necessary to house construction personnel/workers
            during construction and remodeling on site.
     3.     All new structures shall be located within the Development Area as
            provided for in the Exception.
     4,     Uses in the Big Muddy limited use overlay shall be limited to the
            youth/family camp as provided for in the Exception.

                                        Yee (57)
                                                                              EXHIBIT G

                              Conditions of Approval

That the Big Muddy Exception Statement be recorded with the Wasco County Clerk’s
Office.

Paving of Cold Camp Road southerly from its intersection with state highway 218 shall
be completed to a length of approximately 100’ or to a length providing the County
Road Department a reasonable starting point for road grading.

The July 8, 1997 letter from ODOT, together with the supplemental letter of August 12,
 1997 from ODOT documents the anticipated traffic generation for the camp operation.
If the estimated trips are increased by more than 30%, the camp operator shall submit a
revised transportation plan for review by the Planning Commission to ensure adequate
steps can be taken to maintain public safety on all public roads.

Prior to initiating operation of the camp: (a) A fire response, suppression, and
evacuation plan shall be prepared by a registered Professional Fire Protection Engineer
and reviewed for adequacy by the State Fire Marshall or his/her assign; and (b) An
approved flood evacuation plan shall also be prepared in accordance with the Water
Master’s requirements.

The Muddy Road, a public road not maintained by the County, shall be maintained by
the applicant in a safe condition for public as well as pr ivate access. If an alternate road
is constructed to afford alternative access to the Jefferson County public road in lieu of
any portion of the Muddy Road, either the Muddy Road shall be maintained for public
access or the alternate route shall be dedicated to public access while the unmaintained
portion of the Muddy Road may be considered for vacation.

Prior to commencing operation the applicant shall prepare a solid waste management
plan. This plan shall be prepared by a qualified solid waste professional and shall be
reviewed for adequacy by the local Sanitarian with the Public Health Department and by
Department of Environmental Quality’s (DEQ) solid waste division. The plan shall
include, but not be limited to, estimates of material generation, proposed means and
frequency of transport, container types if applicable and disposal site. The applicant is
encouraged to explore opportunities to recycle or create a recycling depot with DEQ.

                                                                                       02
                                                                         (s7) o1404ss.
                                                   Liv