T
WASCO   COUNTY CODE COMPLIANCE AND NUISANCE ABATEMEN
                       ORDINANCE

                             ADOPTED
                             July
                                14, 2009

                                                              SLVOD HOLIUGIT NAYV
                              AMENDED

                                                                                    co O02 Nwr 102

                                                                                                     ALNNO9 COSYM
                              April
                                  5, 2011

                                                                   yuan ALNNOD

                                                                                                         aad
                      PREPARED BY THE
           Wasco County Planning & Development Office
                                &

                                                                                    50
              North Central Public Health Department

                                 STAFF

                            Primary Author
                            Patricia Bozanich

                                Planning
          Keith Cleveland                       Code Compliance Officer
          Todd R. Cornett                       Director
          Gary Nychyk                           Senior Planner
          Brenda Jenkins                        Planning Coordinator
          Dawn Baird                            Associate Planner
          Jeanette Montour                      Associate Planner

                                 Health
          Teri Thalofer                         Director
          Glen Pierce                           E. H. Supervisor
          John Zalaznik                         Environmental Health
          Kristy Beachamp                       E.P. Coordinator

                                      Lol-         L027                        (4                &
                SUMMARY TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                     PAGE
1         INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS           1-1
2         NUISANCE CODES                    2-1
3         ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
                 DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

            CHAPTER 1    INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SECTION   TITLE                                                PAGE
1.010     AUTHORITY                                            1-1
1.020     TITLE                                                1-1
1.030     PURPOSE                                              1-1
1.040     INTERPRETATION                                       1-1
1.050     SCOPE                                                1-2
1.060     AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY                         1-2
1.070     PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTIONICIVIL PENALTY                1-2
1.080     SEVERABILITY                                         1-2
1.090     REPEAL                                               1-3
1.100     SAVING CLAUSE                                        1-3
1.110     EFFECTIVE DATE                                       1-3
1.120     DEFINITIONS                                          1-3

                   Pol   LD   o   a7          apa   201   ey   Provisions
Yio 0007   4%,5b
                                                                                                  Page 1-1

                           CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SECTION 1.010 Authority
This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Oregon                    Revised Statutes
Chapters 92, 197, 203, 215, 433, 449, 459 and Public Law 99-663.                  It also adopts by
reference the National Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance and the Wasco
County Land Use and Development Ordinance.

Some of the language in this ordinance duplicates that from the National Scenic Area
Land Use and Development Ordinance and the Wasco County Land Use and
Development Ordinance. In the event this duplicative language is altered the language in
the amended Land Use and Development ordinance shall apply until this ordinance can
be updated.

SECTION 1.020 Title
This Ordinance shall be known as the Wasco            County Code Compliance and Nuisance
Abatement Ordinance.

SECTION 1.030 Purpose
To protect: the health, safety, and general welfare of Wasco County citizens; to conserve,
stabilize, and protect property values; and to preserve and enhance community livability
by:

A.   Establishing   an   administrative   framework   for the   enforcement     and      abatement         of
     nuisances;

B. Establishing and enforcing minimum standards regulating the accumulation of junk,
     solid waste, tires,    and   inoperable   or abandoned     vehicles   on   public    and    private
     property; and by,

C. Designating violations of the Wasco Land Use and Development Ordinance (LUDO)
   and National Scenic Area LUDO as nuisances that require enforcement action and
     abatement.

SECTION 1.040 interpretation
The provisions of this Ordinance shall be liberally construed to affect the purpose. These
provisions are declared to be the minimum requirements to fulfill objectives stated in the
Purpose above. When conditions herein imposed are less restrictive than comparative
provisions imposed by any other provision of this Ordinance by resolution of State Law or
State Administration regulations, then the more restrictive shail govern.

                                                                     Chapter 1 — introductory Provisions
                                                                     April 5, 2071
                                      fen D027                    spp-éb
Page 1-2

SECTION 1.050 Scope
The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all unincorporated property in Wasco
County except as otherwise excluded. The Solid Waste provisions of: this Ordinance
(Solid Waste as defined in section 1.120 Definitions) shall apply to all property in Wasco
County.

The remedies provided for failure to comply with this Ordinance shall not be exclusive
and shall be in addition to other remedies provided by law. The County expressly
reserves the right to seek abatement              in addition to and not in lieu of administrative
enforcement under Chapter 3.

 SECTION 1.060 Administration Authority and Responsibility
_The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to administer and enforce all of the
provisions       of this Ordinance.       The   Board   of Commissioners    may     employ   qualified
officers, inspectors, assistants, and other employees as shall be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this Ordinance. Such County staff persons shall have full power and
authority to do any and all things necessary, incidental or proper in the enforcement of
said       ordinance,   excluding   the   power   to arrest.   The   authority    of the   designated
Compliance Officer to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance is independent of, and in
addition to, the authority of other County officials to enforce the provisions of any other
County Code.

SECTION 1.070 Private Right of Action /Civil Penalty
Pursuant to ORS 215.185, a person whose interest in real property in the County is or
may be affected by the violation, may, in addition to other remedies provided by law,
institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or other appropriate proceedings to prevent,
temporarily or permanently enjoin, abate, or remove the unlawful location, construction,
maintenance, repair, alteration, or use.

In addition to any other penalty provided herein, any person creating or maintaining a
nuisance may be liable for damages to any person injured thereby. Damages could
include attorney fees and costs incurred by the plaintiff in maintaining an action to
recover damages and any action to abate the nuisance. No action shall be maintained
against the County for failure to abate a nuisance under this ordinance.

SECTION 1.080 Severability
The provisions of this Ordinance are severable.          If any section, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this Ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.

eet                                                 L401 -0047                   6 Dy Se
                                                                                                   Page 1-3

SECTION 1.090 Repeal
The following ordinances, together with all amendments thereto are hereby superceded or
repealed:

Wasco County Solid Waste and Disposal Ordinance, Chapter 102, Section 020,
Abatement of Nuisances; Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance Chapter
15, Sections 010 through 190; and National Scenic Area Land Use and Development
Ordinance Chapter 15, Sections 030 through 190.

SECTION 1.100 Saving Clause
Notwithstanding the Repeal section above, ordinances repealed thereby shall remain in
force for the purpose of authorizing the arrest, prosecution, conviction and punishment
of a person who violated those ordinances prior to the effective date of this ordinance.

SECTION 1.110 Effective Date
This Ordinance shall become effective when filed with the Wasco County Clerk.
Amendments hereto, unless otherwise specified, shail become effective when filed with
the County Clerk.

SECTION 1.120 Definitions
For the purpose of this Ordinance, certain words and terms are defined as follows. Words
used in the present tense include the future. Words in the singular number include the
plural. Words in the plural include the singular. The word "Building" includes the word
"Structure". The word “Shall” is mandatory and not directory.

Abandoned Vehicle - A vehicle which satisfies one of the following criteria:

   a.   The vehicle is not currently licensed and registered for operation;

   b.   The vehicle is being used to store junk, solid waste, or waste as defined in this
        section; or

   c.   The   vehicle   has   parts   which   have   been   discarded,    dismantled,      or   partially
        dismantled, or stripped, or the vehicle is in a rusted, damaged, wrecked or other
        condition which renders the vehicle inoperable.

Abatement of a Nuisance - The act of removing,               repairing, or taking other steps as
may be necessary in order to remove a nuisance.

                                                                     Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions
                                                     7%Sb            April 5, 2014
                               P40    I-003-7
Page 1-4

Administrative Civil Penalty - May include a monetary penalty, restitution, costs and
assessments, and an order of abatement.

Approved - Meets the standards set forth by applicable Wasco County codes, including
any applicable regulations for electric, plumbing, building, or other sets of standards
included by reference in this Ordinance.

Board of Commissioners - Wasco County Board of Commissioners

Compliance Officer - The Wasco County Planning Director, or their designee, or the
Environmental Health Officer, or their designee, or any other person designated by the
Board of Commissioners to enforce this Ordinance.

Compliance Notices and Compliance Orders — Documents that are sent to the owner
of record or person in charge of property during and after the code compliance process.
They include but are not limited to: Notice of Violation, Notice of Failure to Comply:
Violation Recorded on Deed, Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil
Penalty, Notice of Abatement Cost, Notice of Summary Abatement, Order to
Correct all forms of Order to Abate Nuisance, and all Hearings Officer Orders.

Conditions of Approval - Specific requirements that must be fulfilled by the property
owner to insure the legality of a proposed development or action.

Conditional Use - An activity which is basically similar to the uses permitted in a particular
zone but which may not be entirely compatible with the permitted uses. A conditional use
must be approved.

County - The County of Wasco, Oregon.

County Charges — Includes all billable hours, fees, services, materials, or any expense
incurred by the County due to a nuisance violation.

Development            -   Development   includes   any     man-made       change   to    improved   or
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to: construction, installation or change
of a building or other structure; change in use of a building or structure; land division;
establishment, or termination of right of access; storage on the land; tree cutting;
drilling; and site alteration, such as that due to: land surface mining; dredging; filling;
grading; excavation; construction of earthen berms; paving; clearing; or improvements
for use as parking.

Disabled Vehicle - Any vehicle which is inoperative, wrecked or dismantled, or partially
dismantled.

Chapter    z Introductory Provisions            fae       / /-   D 7) a7       y    *    §&
                                                                                                       Page 1-5

Dwelling - Any structure, permanently affixed or temporarily sited or parked, containing
dwelling units, including all dwelling classifications covered by the LUDO or NSA LUDO,
that are occupied full time, periodically, or are unoccupied.

NOTE:    See the definition for Recreational Vehicle or Camping                    Vehicle to determine
when an RV is considered a dwelling.

Dweiling Unit - One or more habitable rooms (attached or detached) that are occupied
by, or designed or intended to be occupied by, one person or by a family or group of
housemates living together as a single housekeeping unit that include facilities for
sleeping, cooking, and sanitation.

Gorge Commission - The Columbia River Gorge Commission, as established by Public
Law 99-663, the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act.

GMA - General Management area of the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

Health Officer - The North           Central   Public     Health   District   Health       Unit   Officer      or
Environmental Health Officer.

Hearings Officer — Individual or group appointed by the Board of Commissioners to issue
orders and hear appeals of enforcement actions initiated under this Ordinance.

Hearings Officer Order — A written decision which requires an owner or person in charge
of property to meet the requirements of Compliance Notices or Compliance Orders and
pay ail penalties, abatement costs, fees, and County charges.

Home Occupation - Any lawful activity carried on within a dwelling or other building
normally associated with uses permitted in the zone and which said activity is secondary to
the primary use of the property for residential           purposes    consistent with the LUDO                 or
NSALUDO Home Occupation provisions.

Inspection     Warrant    - An    order  from   the  Circuit  Court  authorizing   an
inspection/investigation to be conducted at a designated property to determine if the
property is in violation of this ordinance.

Junk    - Includes,   but is not limited to, all old motor vehicles,          old motor vehicle parts,
abandoned      automobiles,    old   machinery,     old    machinery      parts,     old    appliances         or
appliance parts, old iron or other metal, glass, paper, lumber, wood or other useless,
unwanted, or discarded material. The fact that materials, which would otherwise come
within the definition of Junk,       may from time-to-time         have value and thus could                be
utilized, shall not remove them from the definition. For purposes of this subsection, the
term "old" shall include, but not be limited to, a description of items which are
dilapidated, abandoned, inoperable, or otherwise in a state of disrepair.

                                                                         apn, 2014
                                                                         Chapter 1 — Introductory Provisions

                                     fo/-0 037
Page 1-6

Key    Viewing      Area     (KVA)    - Those   portions   of important   public   roads,    parks   or other
vantage points within the Scenic Area from which the public views as scenic landscapes.
These include:

      —Historic Columbia River Highway
      —Crown Point
      --Highway 1-84, including rest stops
      --Multnomah Falls
      --Washington State Route 14
      --Beacon Rock
      --Panorama Point Park
      --Cape Horn
      --Dog Mountain Trail
      --Cook-Underwood Road
      --Rowena Plateau and Nature Conservancy Viewpoint
      --Portland Women's Forum State Park
      -Bridal Veil State Park
      —Larch Mountain
      --Rooster Rock State Park
      --Bonneville Dam Visitor Centers
      Columbia River
      --Washington State Route 141
      --Washington State Route 142
      --Oregon Highway 35
      --Pacific Crest Trail

      Special Management Area (SMA) only:
      --Old Washington State Route 14 (County Road 1230)
      --Wyeth Bench Road
      --Sherrard Point on Larch Mountain

LUDO - The Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance.

Maintained Compost Area - A smail portion of a property set aside for the purpose of
encouraging the rapid decomposition              of yard debris and other vegetable matter into a
suitable fertilizer for the soil on the property.          A maintained compost area shows clear
indicators that the yard debris placed there is being actively managed                      to encourage its
rapid decomposition. Possible signs of such active management may include evidence
of regular turning, a mixture of yard debris types, any woody materials present having
been chopped into smail sizes, and the presence of internal heat in the composting
mixture. A location where yard debris is placed primarily as a means to store it or dump

Chapter 1 = |ntroductory Provisions                fg, My / 00            27                / b   i, XD
                                                                                                  Page 1-7

it without reasonable expectation of rapid decomposition        is not       a maintained      compost
area.

May - Permits or allows an action.

Motor Vehicle - A vehicle that is self-propelled or designed for self-propulsion.

Non-Resource Zones - Zones whose primary designations include, but are not limited
to, residential, commercial and industrial development. These designations include all
residential, commercial, industrial zones as well as the Forest Farm, Agricultural
Recreation, Rural Community, Public Recreation and Open Space designations.

Not Visually Evident (Special Management Area only) - A visual quality standard that
provides for development or uses that are not visually noticeable to the casual visitor.
Developments or uses shall only repeat form, line, color, and texture that are frequently
found in the natural landscape, while changes in their             qualities      of size,     amount,
intensity, direction, pattern, etc., shall not be noticeable.

NSA LUDO - National Scenic Area          Land   Use and Development          Ordinance for Wasco
County.

Nuisance      - Includes,   but is not limited to, any annoying,    unpleasant,         or obnoxious
condition or practice causing an unreasonable threat to the public health, safety, peace
or welfare and defined as a nuisance in this ordinance.

Nuisance Abatement Warrant - An order from the Circuit Court authorizing the
removal and abatement of any nuisance as authorized by this ordinance, including
disposal of the nuisance items removed in an appropriate manner.

Nuisance Illegal Use - Uses of real property which are not in compliance with NSA
LUDO or LUDO or The Wasco County Solid Waste Ordinance. These include, but are
not limited to: illegal dwellings; illegal accessory structures;     illegal businesses;           illegal
home occupations and illegal parking lots.

O.R.S. - The Oregon Revised Statutes.

Order to Abate - A written notice sent to the owner of real property, and/or posted upon
any property that has been declared a nuisance, that orders the owner to abate the
nuisance within.a specified time frame or experience abatement of the nuisance by Wasco
County.     Abatement by the County results in the assessment of costs to the owner of the
property.

                     Pol //.-~O 4) a 7            / NSO            Chapter     J {ntroduetory Provisions
Page 1-8

Order to Correct - A written notice sent to the owner of real property that has been
declared a nuisance that orders the owner to correct the declared violation or experience
administrative civil penalties and/or abatement of the nuisance by Wasco County.

Owner of Record - The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or corporation
whose name and address is listed as the owner of a property by the County Tax
Assessor on the County Assessment and Taxation records.

Partition Land - To divide an area or tract of land into two or three parcels within a
calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous units of land
under single ownership at the beginning of such year. "Partition land” does not include
divisions of land resulting from the creation of cemetery lots, and "partition land" does not
include any adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary where any
additional     parcel    is not created   and   where   the existing    parcel   reduced   in size by the
adjustment is not reduced below the minimum lot size established by an applicable zoning
ordinance.        “Partition land" does not include the sale of a lot in a recorded             subdivision,
even though the lot may have been acquired prior to the sale with other contiguous lots or
property by a single owner.

Permit - Written authorization from a County agency which allows a property owner to
develop or use their property in a specified manner.

Person - Includes individuals, corporations, associations, firms, partnerships and joint
stock companies.

Person       in Charge       of Property - An owner,     agent, occupant,        lessee, tenant, contract
purchaser, or other responsible person having possession or contro! of a property or of
a property which abuts a public way where a nuisance exists.

Posting a Property - The display of any written notice, authorized by this ordinance,
upon any property deemed to be in violation of this ordinance.

Property - Any real property and all improvements,                     buildings or structures on real
property, from property line to property line.

Property Lines - The lines bounding a property as defined herein.

Putrescible Material - Organic material that decomposes                      and gives rise to foul or
offensive odors, or foul or offensive by-products.

Residential Rental Property - Any property within the County containing one or more
dwelling units which are not occupied as the principal residence of the owner.

arapter    7 introductory Provisions                ’3     D / f-      O   b ea v)         /2    yy   Sb
                                                                                         Page 1-9

Recreational Vehicle or Camping Vehicle - A vacation trailer or other unit with or without
motive power which is designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for
recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes, and is identified as a
recreational vehicle by the manufacturer. A recreational or camping vehicle shall be
considered a dwelling unit if any of the following is true:

   a.   It is connected to a sewer system (including septic tank) except for the purpose of
        emptying the holding tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

   b.   It is connected to water or electrical lines except for purposes of charging the
        batteries or filling water tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;
              NOTE: Allowances can be made for subsections a and b above if in the
             opinion of the Compliance Officer evidence suggests that the use of the RV is
             occasional and temporary for the purpose of accommodating visitors

   c.   It is occupied for more than 60 days, on the same property, in any consecutive 12
        month period;

   d.   It is parked on property that is without a legally placed dwelling for more than 30
        days during any consecutive 6 month period.

Resource Zones - Zones primarily designated for farm or forest use. The zoning is
designed to protect commercial farming and forestry operation from incompatible uses. In
the event of a conflict between farming or forestry operations and other             uses,    this
Ordinance will be interpreted in favor of the resource management practice.

Sale or Sell - Includes every disposition or transfer of land in a subdivision or partition or
an interest or estate therein.

Scenic Area - The Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

Scenic Area Review - A development review process, conducted by the Wasco County
Planning   Department    under the requirements    of the National Scenic Area Act and          in
compliance with regulations set forth in the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land
Use and Development Ordinance, whose          purpose is to preserve, protect and enhance
the scenic,   natural, cultural and recreational resources of the Columbia       River Gorge
National   Scenic Area   and   to assure   that development   occurs   in a manner    which     is
compatible with its unique qualities.

Serving notice - The mailing of a certified, return-receipt requested letter is considered
a serving of notice under this Ordinance.

                                                                                          ns
                                             / 3 Br Sb           rie ear ilaaald Provisio
                fA   & i [0    8) 7
Page 1-10

Sewage - Water-carried human or animal waste and kitchen, bath, or laundry waste, from
a structure,      together with     such   groundwater    infiltration   and   surface    water    as    may   be
present.

Shall - Action is mandatory.

Should - Action is encouraged.

Solid Waste — Inciudes all putrescible and nonputrescible wastes, whether in solid or
semi-solid form, including but not limited to: garbage, trash, rubbish, refuse, ashes,
paper,       cardboard;    commercial      and   industrial   wastes;      demolition     and     construction
wastes; manure, vegetable or animal solid or semi-solid wastes including yard debris,
dead animals; medical and infectious waste as defined in ORS 459.386 and OAR 340-
93-030 (42) and (52); all wastes capable of being recycled that are commingled with
other wastes; and, incidental Household Hazardous Waste or Small Quantity Generator
Hazardous waste as defined under 40 CFR 261.5.                   The fact that materials, which would
otherwise come within the definition of Solid Waste, may from time-to-time have value
and thus could be utilized, shall not remove them from the definition. The term “Solid
Waste” shall not include Hazardous Waste as defined in ORS 466.005 or any of the
following:

    a.      Materials   used   for fertilizer or for other productive          purposes     on    land    in the
            growing and harvesting of crops or the raising of fowl or animals;

    b.      Septic tank and cesspool pumping or chemical toilet waste;

    c.      Reusable beverage containers as defined in ORS 459A.725; and

    d. Source separated principal recyclable materials as defined in ORS Chapter 459
       and the Rules promulgated thereunder, which have been purchased or
       exchanged for fair market value.

SMA - Special Management Area of the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

Structure - Anything constructed, erected, or air-inflated, permanent or temporary, which
requires location on the ground. Among other things, the term structure includes buildings,
walls, fences, billboards, poster panels and parking lots.               Retaining walls less than four (4)
feet in height are not considered structures for the sake of general property line setbacks.
Any item defined as a structure in the LUDO or NSA LUDO.

Summary Abatement - Abatement of a nuisance by the County, or by a contractor
hired by the County, without obligation to give prior notice of the abatement action to the
owner or occupant of the property.

Chapter = Introductory Provisions                ZZ, h y f—- LO 2. 7                     / fi       Sb
                                                                                             Page 1-11

Temporary Use Permit - An approval that allows the limited use of structures or activities
which are temporary or seasonal in nature that do not conflict with the zoning district in
which they are located.

Tire - The band of material used on the circumference of a wheel which forms the tread
that comes in contact with the surface of the road.

Truck Camper - A recreation vehicle, camper, or canopy that fits onto the bed of a pickup
or flat-bed truck, and that is not used as a permanent residence.

Unregistered      Vehicle   - A vehicle without a license    plate or with   an expired      license
plate.

Use - The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for
which either land or a building may be occupied or maintained.

Use, Conditional - The term applied to a use which may be permitted by the application
for, the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit.                   ‘

Use, Prohibited - A use not allowed in a zoning district.

Vehicle   ~ Any    device   in, upon,   or by which   any   person   or property   is or may       be
transported, or drawn upon a public highway. This includes vehicles that are propelled
or powered by any means, but does not include a device propelled by human power.
Recreational vehicles, camping vehicles, truck campers and motor homes are included
in this definition.

Visually Subordinate - A description of the relative visibility of a structure or use where
that structure or use does not noticeably contrast with the surrounding landscape, as
viewed from a specified vantage point. As opposed to structures which are fully screened,
structures which are visually subordinate may be partially visible. They are not visually
dominant in relation to their surroundings. Visually subordinate forest practices in the
SMA   shall repeat form, line, color, or texture common        to the natural landscape, while
changes   in their qualities of size, amount,     intensity, direction, pattern, etc., shall not
dominate the natural landscape.

Zoning Approval - Includes discretionary or non-discretionary planning approval for
any structure or use as required by the applicable land use and development ordinance.

                                                                     pater    rmroductory Provisions
                    p. Abu      OD 0 a)       /S B Sie
                      DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

                      CHAPTER 2 NUISANCE CODES

SECTION     TITLE                                                      PAGE
2.010       PURPOSE
2.020       EXEMPTIONS                                                 2-1
2.030       FAILURE TO COMPLY                                          2-2
2.040       UNENUMERATED     NUISANCES                                 2-2
2.050       DECLARED A NUISANCE                                        2-2
2.060       SOLID WASTE NUISANCES                                      2-2
2.070       VEHICULAR NUISANCES                                        2-4
2.080       LAND USE AND ZONING NUISANCES                              2-6
2.080       ILLEGAL USES                                               2-7
2.100       NATIONAL SCENIC AREA NUISANCES                             2-8

          fel-003-]             6% Se            Chapter 2 - Nuisance Codes
                                                 April 5, 2011
b-rnfob27   (79-5¢
                                                                                                  Page 2-1

                              CHAPTER 2 NUISANCE CODES

SECTION 2.010 Chapter 2 Purpose
The purpose of Chapter 2 is to provide codes         which     will be used     to regulate public
health violations, including but not limited to the accumulation of solid waste, junk, tires,
and inoperable or abandoned vehicles on public and private property as                          well   as
designated violations of the Wasco Land Use and Development Ordinances.

The remedies provided for failure to comply with any provision of this ordinance shall
not be exclusive and shall be in addition to other remedies provided by law. The County
expressly    reserves   the right to seek   abatement,     in addition to, and      not in lieu, of
administrative enforcement under Chapter 3.

Nothing contained herein shail preciude civil actions alleging failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.

SECTION 2.020 Exemptions
Uniess specifically provided otherwise, nuisances as defined by this ordinance do not
include:

A. Disposal sites operated in compliance with regulations promulgated by the
   Environmental Quality Commission, Department of Environmental Quality, or other
     ordinances or regulations of the County;

B. Outdoor storage of inoperable or unregistered vehicles when the land has zoning
     approval which permits or conditionally permits outdoor storage of inoperable or
     used vehicles and the vehicles are stored in accordance with applicable provisions;

C. Property located within the corporate limits of incorporated cities within Wasco
   County,    unless   intergovernmental  agreements      have  transferred   zoning
   implementation and/or code compliance authority to Wasco County; and

D. Property located within the urban growth boundary of a city within Wasco County if
   an intergovernmental agreement has transferred zoning implementation and/or code
   compliance authority to that city.

E,   Pursuant to the Wasco County Farming & Forest Practices Protection & Complaint
     Mediation Ordinance a resource use complaint shall only be processed through
     Section 5 of that ordinance and not this ordinance.

NOTE: sub-sections C and D above do not apply to solid waste nuisances (Solid Waste
as defined in section 1.120 Definitions)

                /36({         0°   A?        / 4 Os S&             poapter 2   Nuisance Codes
Page 2-2

SECTION 2.030         Failure to Comply

A. A person who fails to comply with any provision of this Ordinance shall be subject to
   administrative enforcement pursuant to Chapter 3.

B. An Order to Correct or Order to Abate may be signed, issued and mailed or posted
   on the property by any designated agent of the County.

C. Persons who fail to comply with this Ordinance are subject to the administrative civil
   penalties and abatement actions set forth in this Ordinance.

D. The imposition of a penalty does not relieve a responsible person of the duty to
   abate the nuisance.

E. Any failure of the County to enforce a provision of this Ordinance does not constitute
   permission, acquiescence or a right to continue a use that constitutes a violation.

SECTION 2.040 Unenumerated Nuisances
The acts, conditions or objects specifically enumerated and defined in this Chapter are
declared public nuisances and may be abated by the procedures set forth in Chapter 3.
In addition to the nuisances specifically enumerated in this Ordinance, every other thing,
substance or act that is determined by the Compliance Officer or Board of
Commissioners to be injurious or detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of
the County is declared a nuisance and may be abated as provided for in this ordinance.

SECTION 2.050 Declared a Nuisance
The things, practices or conditions in Sections 2.060 through 2.100 constitute           a
nuisance and no person responsible shall cause or permit such a condition to exist.

SECTION 2.060         Solid Waste and Junk Nuisances

A. Accumulation, Collection or Storage of Solid Waste or Junk
   All exterior property areas shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition free
   from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage, so as not to breed insects and
   rodents, produce dangerous or offensive gases, odors and bacteria, or other
   unsanitary conditions, or create a fire hazard.

    Any accumulation, collection or storage of solid waste or junk, shall constitute a
    nuisance, and no person responsible shall cause or permit such condition to exist
    unless the person responsible is licensed by lawful authority to operate a business
    specifically for those purposes.

Chapter 2 -Nuisance Codes
                                   {30-0027                     42,Sh
                                                                                                      Page 2-3

 A maintained         compost    area     of a size and      content   consistent   with   home      use     is
 excluded.

. Storage and Collection of Household Garbage

  1. All household garbage shall be stored in receptacles which are free from holes
     and covered with tight fitting lids.

      If a violation of Section 2.060 has been identified, where residential garbage
      service is available, the owner of the residential property shall provide, in a
      location accessible to all dwelling units on the property, at least one 30 gallon
      receptacle for each dwelling unit, or receptacles with a capacity sufficient to
      prevent the overflow of garbage and rubbish from occurring, and into which
      garbage and rubbish from the dwelling units may be emptied for storage between
      days    of collection.    Receptacles       and   lids shall be watertight and       provided       with
      handles. All receptacles shail be maintained free from holes and covered with
      tight-fitting lids at all times.

      The owner of the unit(s) shall subscribe to and pay for regular garbage removal
      service from the receptacles required by this subsection, by a refuse collection
      licensee or franchisee as defined in the Wasco County Solid Waste Ordinance.

. Storage     of Non-Trash      Items.     All ites     listed below shall be removed          and        kept
 removed       from    properties,       unless    specifically   authorized   by   ordinance        to     do
 otherwise:

 1. Accumulations of wood pallets;

 2. All firewood that is not stacked and useable. “Useable” firewood has more wood
    than rot and is cut to lengths that will fit an approved fireplace or wood stove on
      the property;

      Wood    piles that accumulate, on agriculturally zoned land, as a result of accepted
      farming practice are exempt from this section.

 3. Accumulations of vehicle parts;

 4,   Construction materials, except those that are stored in a manner to protect their
      utility and prevent deterioration and are reasonably expected to be used at the
      site;

 5. Appliances or appliance parts except for storage of appliances that are
    reasonably expected to be used at the site and are stored in a manner to protect
    their utility and prevent deterioration as well as protect children from becoming
    trapped within them;

                                                  Ay      Sb             Chapter2— Nuisance Codes
       p Ao / -00> 7
Page 24

    6.    Indoor furniture except that which is stored in a manner to protect its utility and
          prevent deterioration and is reasonably expected to be used at the property;

    7.    Recycling materials except for reasonable              accumulations   (amounts      consistent
          with a practice of regular removal) that are stored in a well-maintained               manner;
          and

    8. Other non-trash items which:

          a.   Are of a type or quantity inconsistent with normal and usual use; or

          b. Are    likely to obstruct   or impede     the necessary       passage   of fire or other
               emergency personnel.

D. Outdoor Nuisance Storage of Tires

    4. The outdoor storage of 5 or more used tires on private or public property in those
          areas within urban growth      areas or within areas zoned for non-resource               use in
          the LUDO or NSA LUDO, is prohibited, unless the tires are                     used    for DEQ
          permitted agricultural or landscaping purposes.

    2.    The outdoor storage of 10 or more used tires on private or public property in
          resource zoned lands is prohibited, unless the tires are used for DEQ permitted
          agricultural or landscaping purposes.

    3. Any storage of tires that constitutes a health hazard on any property under the
       jurisdiction of the North Central Public Health Dept is prohibited.

    4,    Notwithstanding the above, the storage of tires on private property is permitted if
          the owner of record or person in charge of the property is conducting a legally
          operated business that normally deals in tires, or if the tires are completely
          enclosed within a building and do not constitute a fire hazard or health hazard.

SECTION 2.070         Vehicular Nuisances

A. Abandoned Vehicles

    1.    No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of an
          abandoned, unregistered or inoperable vehicle upon public property, including a
          public right-of-way.

    2.    Removal of an abandoned vehicle from one tax lot to another tax lot, or removal
          of an abandoned vehicle from private property onto a public right-of-way, or
          removal    of an   abandoned    vehicle   from   one    location to another    location    on a
          public right-of-way, after the responsible party has received a Notice of Violation
          shall not prevent the County from proceeding with the process to have the

Chapter 2 ~Nuisance Codes         in ON /- -        £0 x     7         ol / a Sb
                                                                                                    Page 2-5

          vehicle towed from a tax lot or the public right-of-way and impounded under the
          provisions of Chapter 3.

B.   Nuisance Vehicle Storage

     1.   Storing or permitting to be stored two or more abandoned, unregistered or
          disabled vehicles, or portions thereof, or any vehicie leaking automotive fluids
          onto   the ground   or into a waterway,     on    any   private     property   in non-resource
          zones, is prohibited, unless the vehicle is completely enclosed within a building,
          is covered with a fitted car cover specifically designed to protect vehicles from
          the elements,   or is stored   on the premises      of a business enterprise dealing             in
          used vehicles that is being lawfully conducted within the County.

     2.   Storing or permitting the storing of more than three abandoned, unregistered or
          inoperable vehicles, or portions thereof, or any vehicle leaking automotive fluids
          onto the ground or into a waterway, upon private property in resource zones,
          unless the vehicle is completely enclosed within a building, is covered with a
          fitted car cover specifically designed to protect vehicles from the elements, or is
          stored on the premises in connection with a business enterprise dealing in used
          vehicles which is being lawfully conducted within the County.

          Farm-related equipment that is not required to be registered as a motor vehicle is
          excluded from this section if it meets the following criteria:

          a.   Equipment function is clearly related to farming/ranching practices and/or the
               equipment is historically related to agricultural operations, such as combines;

          b. Equipment is not        leaking   automotive     fluids   onto     the   ground   or   into   a
             waterway; and

          c.   Multiple pieces of equipment are stored together, not spread out
               across the property

          The owner of record or person in charge of the property must be able to
          demonstrate that non-registered farm equipment is either actively used as part of
          the agricultural operation or is of historical significance.

     3.   Removal of an unregistered or inoperable vehicle from one tax lot to another tax
          lot, or removal of an unregistered or inoperable vehicle from private property onto
          a public right-of-way, or removal of an unregistered or inoperable vehicle from
          one location to another location on a public right-of-way, after the responsible
          party has received a Notice of Violation shall not prevent the County from
          proceeding with the process to have the vehicle towed from a tax lot or the public
          right-of-way and impounded under the provisions of Chapter 3.

                 PROUBDIT                      — BARB                       seisatrnne
Page 2-6

Cc. illegal Parking lot: Storing or permitting to be stored in excess of 30 days within any
    consecutive        12 month     period, more than three operational and registered vehicles,
    not registered to the property address, unless they are completely enclosed within a
    building or are stored on the premises                   of a business enterprise dealing             in new or
    used vehicles or the storage of vehicles lawfully conducted within the County.

SECTION 2.080          Land Use and Zoning Nuisances

A. Development_without Land Use Review _& Approval                           (whether     approvable        or not):
   Any development within Wasco County conducted                             without    having         obtained   the
    permits and approvals required by the LUDO or NSA LUDO                         regardless of whether or
    not it could comply with all applicable land use regulations.

    Non-Compliance with Approval:      Development that does not                            comply         with the
    specifications set out in the approval issued by the Wasco                              County         Planning
    Department or built inconsistently with Approval. Including but not limited to: placing
    structures in different locations than approved; not meeting setback or buffer
    requirements; building structures taller or larger than approved; or increasing or
    altering the nature and intensity of the approved use.

    Continuation of Use after Expiration of Approval

    1.     Failure to discontinue use granted via               a Permit, Temporary       Use or other, after
           the approval period has expired.

           A Permit may be approved with limited time duration.                 Use continuing beyond the
           expiration of approval is prohibited.

    2.     Failure to remove additional dwelling within sixty (60) days of the expiration of a
           Temporary Use Permit granted due to family hardship or until a primary dwelling
           is Built.

           Temporary placement of an additional dwelling shall be granted for a specified
           time   period,   with   the    period   not     exceeding   two   (2) years.         If the    temporary
           placement is not renewed, the owner of record or person in charge of the
           property shall have sixty (60) days in which to remove the additional dwelling
           from the property, unless an extension is granted.

D. Nonconforming Uses:                   The   following     nonconforming     uses     shall     be     considered
   permitting violations

    1. Any change, alteration, restoration or replacement of structures, uses or area
       related to the pre-existing nonconforming structure, use or area that fails to conform
       to the applicable nonconforming use standards or those of the current zoning
           designation;     and

Chapter 2-Nuisance Codes                       f/2 oN -           LO o> 7              A 3 Sb
                                                                                                       Page 2-7

     2.    Use or employment of a structure, use or area that is discontinued or abandoned
           according to the applicable nonconforming use standards.

E.   Outdoor Lights: Outdoor lights shall be directed downward and sited, hooded, and
     shielded in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent
     properties, roadways, waterways or key viewing areas (National Scenic Area).
     Shielding and         hooding      materials     shall   be   composed    of non-reflective,    opaque
     materials.

SECTION 2.090            illegal Uses
No development may occur that conflicts with the requirements of the LUDO or NSA
LUDO, or that require permits and approvals that were not obtained. These illegal uses
include, but are not limited to the following:

A.   Illegal Dwellings:

     1.    Structures designed          for, or used     in the capacity of a dwelling which         did not
           receive all of the applicable approvals (local, state or federal) that were required
           at the time the structure was built or placed on the property.

     2.    Dwellings or parts thereof erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or
           altered contrary to the provisions of the LUDO or NSA LUDO.

B.   Illegal Structures
     Structures or parts thereof erected,               moved,     reconstructed,   extended,   enlarged      or
     altered contrary to the provisions of the LUDO or NSA LUDO.

C. Illegal Home Occupations:
     Any    for-profit   activity conducted,        without   Planning   Department     approvals,   within    a
     dwelling or other building, normally associated with                   uses    permitted   in the zone,
     contrary to the provisions of the LUDO or NSA LUDO.

D.   lilegal Businesses:
     Any for-profit activity conducted, without Planning Department approvals, within a
     dwelling or other building or on any property normally not associated with uses
     permitted in the zone, contrary to the provisions of the LUDO or NSA LUDO.

E.   Illegal Parking lot:
     Storing or permitting to be stored, in excess of 30 days within any consecutive 12
     month period, more than three operational and registered vehicles, not registered to
     the property address, unless they are completely enclosed within a building or are
     stored on the premises of a business enterprise dealing in new or used vehicles or
     the storage of vehicles that is lawfully conducted within the County.

                                 O A T A b S l o r e i g n
                          LOM- G
Page 2-8

F.   Illegal Land Divisions/Property Line Adjustments:
     Partitions, Replats,     Property Line Adjustments or other land divisions that do not
     comply with LUDO        or NSA LUDO      requirements and/or ORS 92.

G. Other uses: Any other use of land that occurs in Wasco County that the Compliance
   Officer or Board of Commissioners determine is in conflict with LUDO or NSA LUDO
   requirements.

SECTION 2.100- National Scenic Area (NSA) Violations
To safeguard the special characteristics of the Columbia River Gorge, properties built
within the National Scenic Area after November 17, 1986, are required to fulfill
standards that do not apply to properties within the rest of Wasco County.        These
standards may include restrictions on property use and on the colors and materials that
can be utilized in development or remodeling. Violation of these standards constitutes a
violation of this Ordinance.

No structure or premises in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area portion of
Wasco County shall hereafter be used or occupied and no part or structure or part thereof
shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered contrary to the
provisions of this Ordinance.       Violations include, but are not limited to the following:

A. Violation of Scenic Standards:
   Development that does not comply with the following scenic standards is a violation
     of this Ordinance:

     4.    The colors of structures topographically visible from key viewing areas shall be dark
           earth-tones found at the specific site or the surrounding landscape. The specific
           colors or list of acceptable colors shall be included as a condition of approval. This
           guideline shall not apply to certain additions, which may match the color of existing
           buildings;

     2.    Structures topographically visible from key viewing areas shall use low or non-
           reflective building materials, including roofing, gutters, vents, and chimneys; and

     3.    Structures    topographically    visible   from   a   key   viewing    area   shall    be   sited,
           screened and/or designed to achieve the applicable scenic standard (e.g., visual
           subordinance, not visually evident).

B. Violation of New Cultivation and Recultivation Restrictions

     1.    GMA:    New    cultivation   is prohibited without review.       Any   operation      that would
           cultivate land that has not been cultivated, has lain idle, for more than 5 years, or
           is cultivated beyond the depth of what has been previously cultivated shall be
           considered new cultivation. For this guideline, cultivation and vegetation removal
           may be allowed in conjunction with a home garden.

seus meee                                             (301-0029 de Sb
                                                                                   Page 2-9

 2.   SMA:     Agricultural uses within fields or areas that have not been     previously
      disturbed and regularly worked are prohibited without review.

. Violation of Structure Restrictions:   No structures larger than 60 square feet in area
 or 10 feet in height are permitted without review.

. Violation of Fence Restrictions:

  4. Wire-strand or woven-wire fences used for gardens, yards, livestock, and similar
     uses greater than 500 feet in length or 10 feet in height that are accessory to an
      existing dwelling are not permitted without review. Woven-wire fences must be
      brown or black if visible from key viewing areas. Height is measured from the
      ground to the top wire.

      In the General Management Area, the scenic resource protection guidelines shall
      not apply to woven-wire fences for agricultural use that would enclose 80 acres
      or less.

  2. Wire-strand fences greater than 48 inches in height that are outside deer and elk
     winter range as delineated in the Gorge Commission/USDA Forest Service
     natural resource inventories or determined by an appropriate federal or state
     agency are not permitted without review. Height is measured from the ground to
     the top wire. This category does not include fences associated with
     transportation facilities or utility facilities.

                  Poll 00>7 2b Be Se Sees sateen oe
                                                                              Page 3-1

                  DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

           CHAPTER 3 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT

SECTION   TITLE                                                        PAGE
3.010     ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE                              3-1
          ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
3.020     AUTHORIZATION TO INSPECT                                     3-1
3.030     RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION WARRANTS                          3-1
3.040     INTERFERENCE WITH REPAIR, DEMOLITION,                        3-3
          OR ABATEMENT PROHIBITED
3.050     ENFORCING COMPLIANCE                                         3-3
3.055     ENFORCEMENT OF HEARINGS OFFICER ORDER                        3-4
3.060     SEPARATE VIOLATIONS                                          3-4
3.070     CITATION PROCEDURE                                           3-4
3.080     INITIATION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTION                             3-4
3.090     COMPLIANCE NOTICES & COMPLIANCE ORDERS                       3-5
3.100     NOTICE OF VIOLATION                                          3-5
3.110     SUMMARY ABATEMENT                                            3-7
3.120     ORDER TO CORRECT                                             3-8
3.130     ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL                        3-9
          PENALTIES
3.140     DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF ADMINISTRATIVE                    3-12
          CIVIL PENALTY
3.150     ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE AS LAST RESORT                         3-13
3.160     ORDER TO ABATE NUISANCES                                     3-13
3.170     ABATEMENT OF VEHICULAR NUISANCES                             3-15
3.180     NUISANCE ABATEMENT WARRANTS                                  3-17
3.190     ABATEMENT COSTS                                              3-18
3.200     DISTRIBUTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES                     3-19
3.210     RIGHT TO APPEAL                                              3-19
3.220     APPEAL FEES AND DEPOSITS                                     3-20
3.230     FURTHER APPEALS                                              3-21
3.240     RESTRICTING ISSUANCE OF DEVELOPMENT PERMITS                  3-21

                                       Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement
                                       April 5, 2011
                            Paol- 027                        27 RSE
Page 3-2

                       RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION                       3-22
3.250
                       ATTACHMENTS                                        3-23
3.260
                       ATTACHMENT A: APPEALS HEARING PROCEDURE            3-23

                       ATTACHMENT B: CODE COMPLIANCE FLOWCHART            3-25

   Chapter 3 = fudminiatrative Enforcement   -3 Ol/-   002-7   a   4   h- Se
                                                                                                         Page 3-1

                         CHAPTER 3 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT

SECTION 3.010 Establishment of Administrative Civil Enforcement Procedures
Pursuant to ORS 203, administrative civil enforcement procedures are hereby
established for the purpose of providing for the remediation of any failure to comply with
County Ordinances.

It is further intended that a civil administrative process be established in order to provide
a convenient and practical forum for the administrative hearing of any appeal arising out
of any failure to comply with this Ordinance, and for the hearing and determination of
factual     issues as may       be relevant in connection          with,    but not limited to, nuisance
abatement.

It is the County's policy to maximize code compliance and to increase the incentives for
compliance by also creating a County administrative procedure for assessing and
collecting civil penalties against County code violators.    The County believes the
assessment and collection of civil penalties through such an administrative procedure is
the most effective way to obtain code compliance.

Abatement       of a nuisance     by the County       will only be initiated if all other administrative
remedies to correct violations have failed or if the nuisance constitutes a health or safety
hazard.

SECTION 3.020 Authorization to Inspect
The Compliance Officer is authorized to make inspections of property for the purposes
of enforcing this Ordinance.

SECTION        3.030   Right of Entry; Inspection Warrants

A. Right of Entry: The Compliance Officer may enter property, including the interior of
   structures, at all reasonable times whenever an inspection is necessary to enforce
    this    Ordinance,    or    whenever    the     Compliance     Officer     has    reasonable     cause     to
    believe that there exists in any structure or upon                     any property any condition in
    violation of this Ordinance.

    In the case of entry into areas of property that are plainly enclosed to create privacy
    and to prevent access by unauthorized persons, the following steps shall be taken:

    1. Occupied Property: If any structure on the property is occupied, the Compliance
           Officer shall first present     proper    credentials   and      request   voluntary    consent     to
           enter and inspect.     {f voluntary consent is not given, the Compliance Officer may
           attempt to obtain entry by obtaining an inspection warrant;

                                    pr     b Yh a 002. y            sot
                                                                                     AF Y Sb
                                                                                Administrative Enforcement
Page 3-2

      2.     Unoccupied Property:

             a.   If the property is unoccupied, the Compliance Officer shall contact the person
                  in charge of the property and seek voluntary consent to enter and inspect. If
                  voluntary consent is not given, the Compliance Officer may attempt to obtain
                  entry by obtaining an inspection warrant.

             b.   If structures on the property are unoccupied, the Compliance Officer shall first
                  make a reasonable attempt to locate the person in charge of the property and
                  request entry. If entry is refused, the Compliance Officer may attempt to
                  obtain entry by obtaining an inspection warrant.

B. Grounds for Issuance of Inspection Warrants: Affidavit

      1. Affidavit: An inspection warrant shall be issued only upon cause, supported by
         written affidavit, particularly describing the applicant’s status in applying for the
             warrant,     the   statute,   ordinance    or     regulation   requiring    or   authorizing   the
             inspection or investigation, the property to be inspected or investigated and the
             purpose for which the inspection or investigation is to be made including the
             basis upon which cause exists to inspect. In addition, the written affidavit shall
             contain either a statement that entry has been sought and refused, or facts or
             circumstances reasonably showing that the purposes of the inspection or
             investigation might be frustrated if entry were sought without an inspection
             warrant.

      2.     Cause: Cause shail be deemed          to exist if there is probable cause to believe that
             a condition of nonconformity with this Ordinance exists with respect to the
             designated property, or an investigation is reasonably believed to be necessary
             in order to discover or verify the condition of the property for conformity with this
             Ordinance.

C.    Procedure for Issuance of Inspection Warrant

      1.     Examination: Before issuing an inspection warrant, the Circuit Court Judge may
             examine under oath the applicant and any other witness and shall be satisfied of
             the existence of grounds for granting such application.

      2.     Issuance: If the Judge is satisfied that cause for the inspection or investigation
             exists and that the other requirements for granting the application are satisfied,
             the Judge shall issue the written warrant, particularly describing the person or
             persons authorized to execute the warrant, the property to be entered and the
             specific purpose of the inspection or investigation. The written warrant shail
             contain a direction that it be executed on any day of the week between the hours
             of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., or where the Judge has specially determined upon a
             showing that it cannot be effectively executed between those hours, that it be
             executed at any additional or other time of the day or night.

Ape        2 shaministrative Enforcement           vz        O/ / -   0O>-    7         rw) oO   Ve CS
                                                                                                                 Page 3-3

     3.     Police   Assistance:    In   issuing     a   written        inspection         warrant   on     unoccupied
            property, including abatement warrants pursuant to this Ordinance, the Judge
            may authorize any peace officer, as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes, to enter
            the   described   property    to   remove      any     person         or    obstacle     and    assist     the
            Compliance Officer or representative of the County inspecting the property in any
            way necessary to complete the inspection.

D.   Execution of Inspection Warrants

            Occupied    Property:   Except     as    provided      in     Subsection         2.   of this   section,    in
            executing   a written inspection        warrant,     the person            authorized to execute the
            warrant shall, before entry into the occupied premises, make a reasonable effort
            to present the person’s credentials, authority and purpose to a person in charge
            of the property designated in the warrant and provide the occupant or person in
            possession of the property with a copy of the warrant upon request.

          . Unoccupied Property: In executing a written inspection warrant, the person
            authorized to execute the warrant need not inform anyone of the person's
            authority and purpose, as prescribed in subsection 1 of this section, but may
            promptly enter the property if it is at the time unoccupied or not in the possession
            of any person or at the time reasonably believed to be in such condition. In such
            case a copy of the warrant shall be conspicuously posted upon the property.

          . Return: A written inspection warrant must be executed within 10 days of its issue
            and returned to the Judge by whom it was issued within 10 days from its date of
            execution. After the expiration of the time prescribed by this subsection, the
            warrant unless executed is void.

SECTION 3.040 interference with Repair, Demolition, or Abatement Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, impede, or interfere with any person lawfully
engaged in:

A. The work of repairing, vacating, warehousing, or demolishing any structure pursuant
   to the provisions of this Ordinance;

     The abatement of a nuisance pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance; or

     The performance of any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to such work as
     authorized by this Ordinance or directed pursuant to it.

SECTION 3.050 Enforcing Compliance
To enforce any of the requirements of this Ordinance, the Compliance Officer may gain
compliance by:

                                           BOI                   LOFT                             F/ OSb
                                                                           Chapter 3 ~ Administrative Enforcement
                                                                           April 5, 2011
Page 3-4

A. Instituting any enforcement action as set out in this Ordinance

B. Causing appropriate action to be instituted in a court of competent jurisdiction; or

C. Taking other action as the Compliance       Officer in the exercise of the Compliance
   Officer's discretion deems appropriate.

SECTION 3.055 Enforcement Of Hearings Officer Order
Penalties, fees and County charges are payable on the effective date of the order and
are a debt owed to the County, under ORS 30.460, and may be collected in the same
manner as any other debt allowed by law. If penalties, fees, and County charges are
not paid within 60 days after payment is ordered, the County may file and record the
order in the County Clerk Lien Record.    The cost of filing and releasing the lien shall be
added to the amount of the lien and the responsibility of the owner of record or person
in charge of the property.

The County may institute appropriate suit or legal action, in law or equity, in any court of
competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of any order of the Hearings Officer,
including, an action to obtain judgment for any civil penalties, fees, or County charges
imposed by such order.

The Compliance Officer shall notify the owner of record or person in charge of the
property that the penalty and associated County charges have been assessed against
the real property upon which the failure to comply occurred, and has been entered in
the County Clerk's Lien Record. The lien may be enforced in the same manner as a
judgment, or as a lien for street improvements,       and   shail bear interest at the rate
prescribed in ORS 82.010.

SECTION 3.060 Separate Violations
Each day's violation of a provision of this Ordinance shall constitute   a separate offense.

SECTION 3.070 Citation Procedure
In addition to the abatement procedures set forth in this Ordinance, the County staff
person enforcing said ordinance section may issue a citation for a nuisance violation,
which will result in the filing of a complaint in the Circuit Court.

SECTION 3.080 Initiation of Enforcement Action
Enforcement action will be initiated pursuant to the policy established by the Board of
Commissioners in consideration of staff resources and nuisance priorities. While both
anonymous and written and signed complaints are accepted, it is up to the discretion of
the Compliance Officer as to the level of action given to anonymous complaints.

Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement    Vo) Ol {- GO02-7                 3 2 ye Sb
April 5, 2044
                                                                                              Page 3-5

SECTION 3.090 Compliance Notices and Compliance Orders:
The following shail be applicable to ail notices described in this Chapter.

A. Effective Date of Compliance Notices and Compliance Orders:
    All Compliance Notices or Compliance Orders served pursuant to this section shall
    be considered served as of the date and time of mailing or the date of posting the
    property, if the property is posted, whichever is later.

    Owner of Record Information:     An error in the name of the owner or address listed in
    the County assessment and taxation records for the property shall not render the
    Compliance Notice or Compliance Order void, but in such case the posted
    Compliance Notice or Compliance Order, if it was posted on the property, shall be
    deemed sufficient.

    Days:    Any days referenced shail be calendar days.     In the event the final day falls
    on a holiday, weekend or other day the applicable County Office is closed, the final
    day shall be on the next business day following the holiday, weekend or other day
    the applicable County Office is closed.

    Affidavit: Upon completion of each mailing and/or posting, the Compliance Officer
    will create an affidavit of Compiiance Notice or Compliance Order.

SECTION      3.100   Notice of Violation (Step 1)

A. Initial  Response:    All conditions defined in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance shall
    constitute a nuisance. Any person whose duty it is to correct such nuisances and
    who fails to do so shall be subject to the penalties provided for by this Ordinance.

    When the Compliance Officer is made aware of a potential violation, the property is
    researched to determine ownership, zoning, prior contacts with Planning or Health
    Departments and related information. The Compliance Officer visits the property
    where possible to determine if a violation exists. If a violation is determined, it is
    documented with photos where possible and a 15 day Notice of Violation is sent via
    First Class Mail and certified mail, return receipt requested to the owner of record or
    person in charge of the property or served by personal service. Notice to the owner
    of record or person in charge of the property may also be accomplished by posting
    notice on the property or personal property.

    In cases where the County Health Officer, County Environmental Health Specialist,
    County Planning Department Director, County Sheriff or Fire Chief, determines that
    it is necessary to take immediate action in order to protect the public health, safety
    or welfare, summary abatement of such nuisances pursuant to Section 3.110 is
    authorized.

                                 f20tl- 602-7                                  33952
                                                         Chapter 3 ~ Administrative Enforcement
                                                         April 5, 2011
Page 3-6

B. The Notice of Violation shall include:

     1. The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
           which the nuisance exists;

     2. A statement that one or more violations of this Ordinance exist at the property
        with a general description of the violation(s) and the section(s) violated;

     3. A request that the person               in charge    of the property contact the Compliance
           Officer to resoive the violation(s):

     4.    Specification of      a 15 day response          period during which the property may     be
           brought into compliance with this Ordinance;

     5. A statement that the owner of record or person in charge of the property may
        extend the deadline for compliance by entering into verbal or written abatement
           agreement     with the Compliance         Officer that establishes   an   approved   process
           and timetable to abate the nuisance;

     6. An outline of the compliance process including but not limited to penalties,
        charges, liens, abatement and recorded notice of violation in the deed records of
        the property if voluntary compliance is not achieved; and

     7.    Disclose the right of the owner of record or person in charge of the property to
           appeal the findings of the Notice of Violation and a description of the time limits
           for requesting an appeal, as described'in Section 3.210 Right to Appeal.

C. Voluntary Compliance:                 If the owner of record or person   in charge of the property
     responds to the Notice of Violation the timelines can be suspended to allow for
     compliance.     If compliance cannot be achieved immediately a verbal or written
     abatement plan with a timeline shall be agreed upon by both the owner of record or
     person in charge of the property and the Compliance Officer.            It shall be the
     discretion of the Compliance Officer whether a verbal or written abatement plan shall
     be required.      If within this timeframe the violation has been abated a compliance
     letter will be sent and the file will be closed.

D. Failure to Comply:      If following a site visit either after the end of the 15 days
   identified in the Notice of Violation if the owner of record or person in charge of the
   property does not contact the Compliance Officer or after the timeline in the
   abatement agreement, the violation has not been satisfactorily abated, an Order to
   Correct (Step 2) will be sent to the owner of record or person in charge of the
   property. However, the Compliance Officer does have the discretion to allow for
   additional time if they feel the owner of record or person in charge of the property will
     abate the violation.

E.   Expanded Enforcement Options for Illegal Dwellings and Structures:

Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement          Z cA Ol /— LO 7                      Ss Y       2S
April 5, 2011
                                                                                                        Page 3-7

   illegal dwellings and structures present special problems for enforcement; because
   removal of the dwelling or structure may often be the only way to correct the
   violation.   in addition, purchasers of a property containing an illegal dwelling or
   structure may be initially unaware of an illegal dwelling or structure violation.

   As a result, the Compliance Officer is authorized to use the following methods to
   deal with illegal dwellings and structures:

   1. When entering into a written abatement agreement with the owner of record or
        person     in charge     of the   property,   the   Compliance        Officer    will work   with   the
        Planning Department to determine a reasonable                       timeframe      and   method      for
        legalizing the dwelling or structure where possible.

   2.   If following the expiration of verbal or written abatement agreement, any illegal
        dwelling or structure described in the notice of violation has not been removed,
        made legal, or cause shown, as specified in this Ordinance, why such nuisance
        should not be removed, or where the terms of a written abatement agreement
        have     been    violated,   the Compliance     Officer,   in consultation       with the    Planning
        Department Director, may carry out one or more of the following actions:

        a.   Record a Notice of Violation with the deed of trust pursuant to Section 3.250.

        b. Assess Administrative Penalties as described in Section 3.130.

        c. Assess double Administrative Penalties if, after receiving an Order to Correct
           (Step 2), the owner of record or person in charge of the property continues to
             build an    illegal structure   or dwelling    or adds     additional      illegal structures or
             dwellings to the property.

        d. Order the demolition and removal of the illegal structures or dwellings using
           the process defined in Section 3.160, Order to Abate Nuisances.

SECTION        3.110    Summary Abatement (Step 1)

A. When summary abatement is authorized by this Ordinance, the decision regarding
   whether or not to use summary abatement shall be at the County Official’s
   discretion. In the case of summary abatement, notice to the owner of record or
   person in charge of the property prior to abatement is not required. However,
   following summary abatement, the Official shall post upon the property liable for the
   abatement a notice describing the action taken to abate the nuisance violation.                            In
   addition,     a Notice of Summary Abatement shall be mailed to the owner of record or
   person in charge of the property. Notice to the owner of record or person in charge
   of the property may also be accomplished by posting notice on the property.

B. The Notice of Summary Abatement shall include:

                                          P2oil-00-7                                    354%
                                                                   Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement
                                                                   April §, 2011
Page 3-8

      . The date the nuisance on the property was abated:

           The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
           which the nuisance exists;

      . A statement of the violations of this Ordinance that existed at the property and
        were summarily abated;

            Disclosure that penalties, charges and liens will result          from   the   summary
           abatement subject to Section 3.190, Abatement Costs; and

           Disclose the right to appeal the findings of the Notice of Summary           Abatement,
           and a description of the time limits for requesting an appeal, as described               in
           Section 3.210, Right to Appeal, to the owner of record or person in charge of the
           property.

SECTION        3.120   Order to Correct   (Step 2)

A. Order to Correct Site Visit: If following the site visit described in Section 3.100(D),
   the owner of record or the person in charge of the property has failed to voluntarily
   abate the violation, an Order to Correct shall be sent via First Class Mail and
   certified mail, return receipt requested to the owner of record or person in charge of
   the property or served by personal service. Notice to the owner of record or person
     in charge of the property may         also   be   accomplished   by   posting   notice   on   the
     property or personal property.

B.   The Order to Correct Shall Include:

     1. The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
        which the nuisance exists;

           A statement that one or more vioiations of this Ordinance exist at the property
           with a general description of the viclation(s) and the section(s) violated;

           A request that the owner of record or person in charge of the property contact the
           Compliance Officer to resolve the violations;

           Specification of a 15 day response period during which the property may be
           brought into compliance with this Ordinance before penalties, charges, or liens
           will be assessed;

           A statement that the owner of record or person in charge of the property may
           extend the deadline for compliance by entering into a written abatement

Chapters = Administrative Enforcement   f2 b/l—          D 6) +7             5 G       h       Sb
                                                                                                  Page 3-9

          agreement    with the Compliance    Officer that establishes       an   approved      process
          and timetable to abate the nuisance;

     6. An    outline of the compliance      process   including   but not limited       to penalties,
          charges, liens, abatement and recorded notice of violation in the deed records of
          the property if voluntary compliance is not achieved; and

     7.   Disclose the right to appeal the findings of the Order to Correct and a description
          of the time limits for requesting an appeai, as described in Section 3.210 Right to
          Appeal, to the owner of record or person in charge of the property.

C. Voluntary Compliance:        If the owner of record or person        in charge of the property
     responds to the Order to Correct, the timelines can be. suspended to allow for
     compliance.     if compliance cannot be achieved immediately a written abatement
     plan with a timeline shail be agreed upon by both the Disclose the right to appeal the
     findings of the Notice of Summary Abatement, and a description of the time limits for
     requesting an appeal, as described in Section 3.210, Right to Appeal, to the owner
     of record or person in charge of the property and the Compliance Officer. If within
     this timeframe the violation has been abated a compliance letter will be sent and the
     file will be closed.

D. Failure to Comply:     If either following a site visit after the end of the 15 days
   identified in the Order to Correct, the owner of record or person in charge of the
   property does not contact the Compliance Officer, or after the timeline in the written
   abatement agreement, the violation has not been satisfactorily abated, a Notice of
     Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty (Step 3) will be sent to the owner of
     record or person in charge of the property. However, the Compliance Officer does
     have the discretion to allow for additional time if they feel the owner of record or
     person in charge of the property will abate the violation.

SECTION       3.130 Establishment of Administrative Civil Penalties (Step 3)

A. Administrative Penalty Site Visit: If following the site visit described in Section
   3.120(D), the owner of record or the person in charge of the property has failed to
   voluntarily abate the violation, a Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil
     Penalty shall be sent via First Class Mail and certified mail, return receipt requested
     to the owner of record or person in charge of the property or served by personal
     service. Notice to the owner of record or person in charge of the property shall also
     be accomplished by posting the Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil
     Penalty on the property or personal property.

B.   The Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalties Shall Include:

     1. The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
          which the nuisance exists;

                                 faoil- 0027                                   3279%Sb
                                                             Chapter 3 — Administrative Enforcement
                                                             April §, 2011
Page 3-10

    2.      A statement that one or more      violations of this Ordinance   exist at the property
            with a general description of the violation(s) and the section(s) violated;

    3. A request that the owner of record or person in charge of the property contact the
       Compliance Officer to resolve the violation(s);

    4.      Specification of a 15 day response period during which the property may be
            brought into compliance with this Ordinance before penalties, County charges, or
            liens will be assessed;

    5.      An outline of the compliance process including but not limited to County charges,
            penalties, liens, abatement and recorded notice of violation in the deed records
            of the property if voluntary compliance is not achieved;

    6. A statement of the amount of the penalties and County charges imposed;

    7. A statement that abatement is required and that failure to abate the act or
       condition may result in continued County charges and penalties accruing on a
       daily basis at the stated amount until proof of completion of abatement is
       received;

    8.      If the penalty is to be imposed pursuant to Subsection E below, a short and plain
            statement of the basis for concluding that said subsection applies; and

    9.      Disclose the right to appeal the findings of the Notice of Failure to
            Comply/Administrative Penalty and a description of the time limits for requesting
            an appeal, as described in Section 3.210, Right to Appeal, to the owner of record
            or person in charge of the property.

C. Voluntary Compliance: If the owner of record or person in charge of the property
   responds to the Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Penalties and achieves
   voluntary compliance within 15 days of the notice, a compliance letter will be sent
    and the file will be closed.

D. Failure to Comply: If the owner of record or person in charge of the property does
   not contact the Compliance Officer, or if following an additional site visit no sooner
   than 15 days after the Notice of Failure to the Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty
   the violation has not been not satisfactorily abated, administrative civil penalties may
   be assessed and abatement may occur subject to Sections 3.140 through Section
   3.190 and Subsection | below.

E. Notwithstanding the Notice of Violation or Order to Correct, the Compliance Officer
    may issue a Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty without having
    issued a Notice of Violation, Order to Correct or making attempts to secure voluntary

Chapter 3 ~Administrative Enforcement     2     ol /-O D aT                  3 Y    MZ
                                                                                                                  Page 3-11

     correction,       where   the Compliance          Officer determines            that the failure to comply
     reasonably appears to:

     1.    Pose an immediate threat to public health, safety or welfare, or

     2.    Be immediately remediable by a person in charge of the property, or

     3.    Be the same act or condition that served as the basis for a previous order to
           comply, or

     4.    Be   done    deliberately     by   a   responsible      person      who     had      knowledge        that the
           actions in question would constitute a failure to comply.

F.   Utilizing the procedure set forth in Section 3.140, Determination of Amount of
     Penalty, the Compliance Officer shall determine the penalty amount that may be
     imposed for a particular violation. No monetary penalty imposed under this section
     shall exceed $2,000, per violation, per day. Except for illegal structures and illegal
     dwellings, the maximum accrued penalty plus all County charges shall not exceed
     $10,000. Unless they are recorded as a lien, reach the penalty cap, or are otherwise
     addressed in an agreement written into the abatement plan, unpaid penalties will
     double after 6 months and again after 1 year from the date they are originally
     assessed at which time the County may record the penaity as a lien.

G. Any person who pays the monetary penalty within 15 days of when                                     it was ordered
     shall only be required to pay 90 percent thereof. Unless an agreement or payment
     schedule is written into the abatement plan, failure to pay a penalty imposed
     hereunder within 15 days after the penalty becomes final as provided in Subsection
     D above shall constitute a failure to comply with this section.

     Each day after the initial 15 day period for payment that the penalty is not paid and
     the violation or nuisance remains active on the property, shall constitute a separate
     failure to comply. The Compliance Officer is also authorized to collect the penalty by
     any administrative or judicial action or proceeding authorized by Subsection K
     below,     other    provisions     of this      Ordinance      or    state    statutes,     and       may   enforce
     delinquent liens or assessments pursuant to ORS 223.510.

     NOTE: If the violation is still active on the property, penalties and County charges
     resulting from an illegal dwelling or structure will be paid to the County at the time
     the    property     is sold   by   collection    of the     lien    amount.       If the    illegal    dwelling     or
     structure remains in violation on the property the fine will be assessed daily up to
     $20,000 or the assessed value of the dwelling or structure; whichever is higher, then
     be recorded as a lien against the property.

H. The administrative civil penalty authorized by this section shall be in addition to:

                                          P2Qol- 0697                                                  ON
                                                                           Chapter 3 — Administrative Enforcement
                                                                           April 5, 2011
Page 3-12

     1.     County charges incurred by the County in processing,          remediation, cleanup or
            abatement, and

     2. Any other assessments, fees or actions authorized by law.

     Hearings Officer Order: If the owner of record or person in charge of the property
     does not file a written appeal within 15 days of the date when the Notice of Failure to
     Comply/Administrative Civil Penaity is served or mailed, the Compliance Officer shall
     forward the Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty along with a
     statement of the assessed penalty pilus fees, and County charges to the Hearings
     Officer for review and issuance of a written order. However, the Compliance Officer
     does have the discretion to allow for additional time if they feel the owner of record
     or person in charge of the property will abate the violation.

     If the Hearings Officer determine(s) the findings, penalties, fees, County charges, or
     other information were lawful, the Hearings Officer shall issue a written order
     affirming the findings, penalties, fees, County charges or other information in the
     Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty and the owner of record or
     person in charge of the property shall be responsible for meeting the requirements of
     the Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty and paying al! penalties,
     fees, and County charges on or before a date set by the Hearings Officer.

     If the Hearings Officer determine(s) any part of the findings, penalties, fees, County
     charges or other information were not lawful, the owner of record or person in
     charge of the property shall be responsible for meeting the requirements of the
     Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalty and paying all penalties,
     fees, and County charges that were found to be lawful on or before a date set by the
     Hearings Officer.

     A copy of the Hearings Officer Order shall be sent to the owner of record or person
     in charge of the property by certified mail

     In addition        to enforcement   mechanisms   authorized   elsewhere   in this Ordinance,
     failure to pay an administrative civil penalty imposed pursuant to this Section shall
     be grounds for withholding issuance of requested permits or licenses, issuance of a
     stop work order, if applicable, or revocation or suspension of any issued permits or
     licenses.

SECTION         3.140     Determination of Amount of Administrative Civil Penalty (Step 3)

The Compliance Officer shall determine the amount of the administrative civil penalty to
be assessed under this Ordinance in accordance with the following schedule:

A. Solid Waste and Junk Nuisances:            $280 per day, per violation

Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement       f2 iy) / / —     D J) Pal)            Y      Q Se
April 5, 2011
                                                                                                           Page 3-13

B. Vehicular Nuisances: $100 per day, per vehicle

C.   Land   Use    and Zoning         Nuisances,      except   illegal dwellings or structures:         $280    per
     day, per violation

D. LUDO Site Violations:             $280 per day, per violation

E. Illegal dwellings or structures, permanent:                  $2,000 per day, per violation.            Penalty
     ceases to accrue when            it reaches the assessed value of the dwelling or structure or
     $20,000, whichever is higher. If the assessed value is not available then the fine
     amount may be set to cease at $20,000. Penaity is forgiven when the violation is
     addressed (removed, permitted, or converted to an allowed use) by owner of record
     or person in charge of the property.

F.   Illegal dwellings or structures, temporary: $2,000 per day, per violation. Penalty
     ceases to accrue when it reaches the assessed value of the dwelling or structure or
     $20,000,     whichever        is higher.    If the assessed    value   is not available then the fine
     amount may be set to cease at $20,000. Penalty is forgiven when the violation is
     addressed (removed, permitted, or converted to an allowed use) by owner of record
     or person in charge of the property.

G. For violations listed in subsections A through D above that are the second similar
   violation within 2 years from the date the first similar violation was resolved, the
   calculated penalty will be doubled.

SECTION 3.150 Abatement of Nuisance as Last Resort (Step 4)
Except in the case of summary abatement, abatement of a nuisance by the County shall
only proceed if the owner of record or person in charge of the property has not
satisfactorily abated the violation within 15 days of the Notice of Failure to
Comply/Administrative Civil Penalties.

Abatement of a nuisance by the County will only be initiated if all other remedies to
correct the violation have failed.

SECTION      3.160 Order to Abate Nuisances (Step 4)
If, following 15 days after the Notice of Failure to Comply/Administrative Civil Penalties,
any nuisance (illegal dwellings and structures are subject to Section 3.100 (E))
described       in the    Notice     has   not    been   removed     and    abated,    or cause       shown,     as
specified in this Ordinance, why such nuisance should not be removed                              or abated, or
where    summary         abatement      is authorized,    or where    the terms       of a written abatement
agreement have been violated, in addition to the imposition of Administrative Civil
Penalties, the Compliance Officer may cause the nuisance to be removed and abated,
including disposal in an approved manner by:

                                                                       Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement

                                                  -                    Qo             009-7 $l IPE                     5b
Page 3-14

A.   Causing an Order to Abate Nuisance to be posted on                     the   premises   where   the
     nuisance exists directing the removal of such nuisance.

B. At the time of posting, the Compliance Officer shall cause a copy of such notice to
   be forwarded via First Class Mail and certified mail, return receipt requested to the
   owner of record or person in charge of the property or served by personal service.

C.   The Order to Abate Nuisances Shall Include:
     The Notice shall be entitled "Order to Abate Nuisance’ and shail contain:

     1. The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
        which the nuisance exists;

     2. A statement that one or more violations of this Ordinance exist at the property
            with a general description of the violation(s) and the section(s) violated;

     3.     An order to abate the nuisance within 15 days from the date of the notice;

     4. A statement that unless the nuisance is removed, the County may abate the
        nuisance and the cost of abatement, penalties, fees, and any County charges,
        shail be charged to the owner of record or person in charge of the property and
        be attached to the property as a lien; and

     5.     Disclose the right to appeal the findings of the Order to Abate Nuisance and a
            description of the time limits for requesting      an appeal,    as described    in Section
            3.210 Right to Appeal, to the owner of record or person in charge of the property

D. Failure To Comply:     If following 15 days after the Order to Abate Nuisance, the
   violation has not been not satisfactorily abated, the violation will be abated pursuant
   to Section 3.170 — Section 3.190 and Subsection E below.

E. Hearings Officer Order:               If the owner of record or person in charge of the property
     does not file a written appeal within 15 days of the date when the Order to Abate
     Nuisance is served or mailed, the Compliance Officer shall forward the Order to
     Abate Nuisance along with a statement of the estimated abatement cost plus any
     penaities, fees, and County charges to the Hearings Officer for review and issuance
     of a written order. However, the Compliance Officer does have the discretion to
     allow for additional time if they feel the owner of record or person in charge of the
     property will abate the violation.

     If the Hearings Officer affirms the Order to Abate Nuisance, the Hearings Officer
     shall issue a written order affirming the findings, abatement costs, penalties, fees,
     and County charges or other information found in the Order to Abate Nuisance, the
     Compliance Officer will proceed with abatement subject to Section 3.170 — Section
     3.190 and the owner of record or person in charge of the property shall be

Chapter 3 = Administrative Enforcement                    /. A201 /—        b0 a7        ¥. “2    Q SL
                                                                                                               Page 3-15

   responsible for paying all abatement costs, penalties, fees, and County charges on
   or before the date set by the Hearings Officer.

   A copy of the Hearings Officer Order shall be sent to the owner of record or person
   in charge of the property by certified mail

SECTION       3.170   Abatement of Vehicular Nuisances (Step 4)

A. Order to Abate Vehicular Nuisance:               If, following 15 days after the Notice of Failure
   to Comply/Administrative           Civil Penalties,     any vehicle which qualifies as a nuisance
   under Chapter 2 but is not subject to Summary Abatement, the Compliance Officer
   shall affix an Order to Abate Vehicular Nuisance notice to the abandoned vehicle. In
   the case of an abandoned vehicle on private property, permission to enter the
   property to affix the notice to the vehicle shall be obtained from the owner of record,
   person in charge of the property or shall be authorized by Section 3.030, Right of
   Entry; Inspection Warrants.

   The Order to Abate Vehicular Nuisances Shail Include the following information:

   1. That the vehicle will be subject to being impounded by the County if the vehicle is
      not removed from the private property or public property within 15 days of the
      date of the notice. if the vehicle is to remain on private property, it must be
      moved and stored within an enclosed structure or covered by a device
      specifically designed to protect the vehicle from the elements.

   2.   The section of this Ordinance             which     has    been      violated    and    under     which     the
        vehicle will be removed.

   3. The place where the vehicle will be impounded and the telephone number to find
      out information about where the vehicle will be stored.

   4.   The vehicle, if impounded, will be subject to towing and storage charges, County
        charges, and a lien will be attached to the vehicle and its contents.

   5.   The    vehicle   will   be   sold   to satisfy    the    costs    of towing,     storage,       and    County
        charges if these costs are not paid by the owner.

   6.   Disclose the owner's right to appeal the findings of the Order to Abate Vehicular
        Nuisance and a description of the time limits for requesting an appeal, as
        described in Section 3.210 Right to Appeal.

B. Abatement Proceedings:   In the event the person responsible does not voluntarily
   comply by removing the vehicle from the private property or the public right-of-way,
   or by storing the vehicle within an enclosed structure, or underneath an approved
   coverage      device,    within    the   specified     time    period,    the    Compliance        Officer     shall
   institute abatement          proceedings     to have the abandoned                vehicle towed            from the

                                                                         Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement
Page 3-16

     private property or the public right-of-way and impounded.              If the vehicle is on private
     property the vehicle shall be abated pursuant to Section 3.180, Nuisance Abatement
     Warrants.

     The Compliance Officer shall mail a notice to the registered owner of the vehicle and
     to any lessors or security interest holders as shown in the state Motor Vehicle
     Department records, and to the person responsible for creating the nuisance,                  if that
     person is not the registered owner of the vehicle and the County has been able to
     identify that person, that the vehicle has been impounded. The notice shall be sent
     by regular mail and by certified mail, return receipt requested, and be mailed within
     48 hours of the impoundment.

     The Impoundment Notice Shall Include the following information:

     1.     The location where the vehicle will be stored.

     2.     That the vehicle and its contents are subject to a lien for the payment of storage
            and towing charges and an administrative fee of $100, and that the vehicle and
            its contents will be sold if those charges and administrative fee are not paid.

     3. That the vehicle will not be released until the owner provides proof that the
        vehicle is currently licensed and registered, that the nuisance conditions will not
        be resumed, and that ail towing and storage fees and the $100 administrative fee
        have been paid, and the County has authorized the release of the vehicle in
        writing.

     4.     Disclose the owner's right to request an appeal hearing to contest the validity of
            the impoundment or the liability for towing charges and the administrative fee.
            The Request for an appeal shall be made as described in Section 3.210, Right to
            Appeal.

C. Disposal       of abandoned          vehicles which     have been    impounded   under this section
     shall be carried out in accordance with the applicable provisions of Chapter 819 of
     the Oregon Revised Statutes. The County shail be entitled to recover the costs of
     the nuisance abatement,             including the $100 administrative fee, in an appropriate
     action at law.

.D. Removal        of an abandoned          vehicle from    one   private property to another private
     property,    or removal     of an abandoned         vehicle from   private property onto   a public
     right-of-way, or removal of an abandoned vehicle from one location to another
     location on a public right-of-way, after a notice has been affixed to the vehicle under
     subsection (A) of this section, shall not prevent the County from proceeding with the
     process to have the vehicle towed from a private property or the public right-of-way
     and impounded under the provisions of Subsection (B) of this section, above.

Ae        oo     tative   Enforcement                    P21      /- 00-7           ff     b-    S@
                                                                                                            Page 3-17

SECTION 3.180           Nuisance Abatement Warrants (Step 4)
The Compliance          Officer may request any Circuit Court Judge                   to issue         a nuisance
abatement warrant whenever             entry onto private property is necessary to remove                         and
abate any nuisance.

A.   Grounds for Issuance of Nuisance Abatement Warrants;

     1.   Affidavit:   A nuisance      abatement    warrant    shail   be   issued        only    upon    probable
          cause, supported by affidavit, particularly describing the applicant's status in
          applying for the warrant, the statute, ordinance. or regulation requiring or
          authorizing the removal and abatement of the nuisance, the building or property
          to be entered, the basis upon which            probable cause exists to remove                  or abate
          the nuisance,    including the existence       of prior violations,       and    a statement          of the
          generai types and estimated quantity of the items to be removed or conditions
          abated.

     2.   Probable Cause: Probable cause shall be deemed to exist if it is believed that a
          nuisance violation exists, as defined in this Ordinance, with respect to the
          designated property.

B.   Procedure for Issuance of a Nuisance Abatement Warrant:

     1.   Examination: Before issuing a nuisance abatement warrant, the Judge may
          examine the applicant and any other witness under oath and shall be satisfied of
          the existence of grounds for granting such application.

     2.   Issuance:     If the Judge     is satisfied   that   probable     cause     for the         removal     and
          abatement of any nuisance exists and that the other requirements for granting
          the application are satisfied, the Judge shall issue the warrant, particularly
          describing the person or persons authorized to execute the warrant, the property
          to be entered, and a statement of the general types and estimated quantity of the
          items to be removed or conditions abated. The warrant shall contain a direction
          that it be executed on any day of the week between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
          6:00 p.m., or where the Judge has specially determined upon a showing that it
          cannot be effectively executed between those hours, that it be executed at any
          additional or other time of the day or night.

     3.   Police Assistance: In issuing a nuisance abatement warrant, the Judge may
          authorize any peace officer, as defined in Oregon Revised Statutes, to enter the
          described property to remove any person or obstacle and to assist the
          Compliance Officer in any way necessary to enter the property and remove and
          abate the nuisance.

Cc. Execution of Nuisance Abatement Warrants

                                                    yy             Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement

                                                         BOUSG659                                FS               &b
                                                                   April 5, 2011
Page 3-18

    1.      Occupied Property: Except as provided in subsection 2, below, of this section, in
            executing a nuisance abatement warrant, the person authorized to execute the
            warrant shall, before entry into the occupied premises, make a reasonable effort
            to present the person's credentials, authority and purpose to an occupant or
            person in possession of the property designated in the warrant and to show the
            occupant or person       in possession     of the property the warrant or a copy thereof
            upon request.

    2.      Unoccupied_      Property:        In   executing   a    nuisance      abatement        warrant        on
            unoccupied property, the person authorized to execute the warrant need not
            inform anyone of the person's authority and purpose, as prescribed in subsection
            1 of this section, but may promptly enter the designated property if it is at the
            time unoccupied or not in the possession of any person or at the time reasonably
            believed to be in such condition. In such case a copy of the nuisance abatement
            warrant shail be conspicuously posted on the property.

    3.      Return: A nuisance abatement warrant must be executed within 10 days of its
            issue and returned to the Judge by whom it was issued within 10 days from its
            date of execution. After the expiration of the time prescribed by this subsection,
            the warrant unless executed is void.

D. Disposal of Nuisance Items Removed: The Compliance Officer may cause the
   nuisance items that were removed, pursuant to the nuisance abatement warrant, to
   be disposed of in an approved manner whenever the Compliance Officer, in the
    Compliance Officer's sole discretion, finds that the fair and reasonable value of the
    items at resale would be less than the cost of storing and selling the items. In
    making the above determination, the Compliance Officer may include in the costs of
    sale the reasonable cost of removing the items to a place of storage, of storing the
    items for resale, of holding the resale including reasonable staff allowances, and all
    other reasonable and necessary expenses of holding the sale.

SECTION         3.190     Abatement Cost (Step 4)

A. Responsibility for Costs
   if more than one (1) person is responsible for the creation or continuation of a
   nuisance, they shall be jointly and severally liable for abating the nuisance or for all
   costs incurred by the County in abating the nuisance.

    An      accurate      record   of the    abatement    costs    shall   be   kept   and     shall    include     a
    surcharge of 25% of the cost of the abatement for administrative overhead.

    A Notice       of Abatement          Cost shail be forwarded      via First Class        Mail and       certified
    mail, return receipt requested to the owner of record or person                          in charge of the
    property or served by personal service, to the owner of record or person in charge of
    the property.       The notice shall contain:

Chapter $ 7 Administrative Enforcement                 fa 0 /, fe      I) O 2 7              Yo        2B     S¢
                                                                                                          Page 3-19

     1.   The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
          which the nuisance exists;

     2.   A statement that one or more violations of this Ordinance existed at the property
          with a general description of the violation(s) and the section(s) violated;

     3.   The date the violation was abated and actions taken to abate the violation;

     4.   The total cost, including the administrative overhead, of the abatement;

     §. A statement that the cost as indicated will become                    a lien against the property
        unless paid within 60 days.

     6.   Disclose the right to appeal the amount of abatement costs and a description of
          the time limits for requesting an appeal, as described in Section 3.210, Right to
          Appeal, to the owner of record or person in charge of the property

SECTION 3.200 Distribution of Administrative Penalties (Step 4)
All Administrative Civil Penalties, payments for abatement costs, fees, and other County
charges collected under this Ordinance shall be deposited in the Wasco County General
Fund.

SECTION 3.210           Right to Appeal

A.   Whenever an owner of record or person             in charge of the property has been given
     any Compliance Notice or Compliance Order pursuant to this Ordinance and the
     owner of record or person in charge of the property believes the findings, penalties,
     fees, County charges, or other information. in the Compliance Notice or Compliance
     Order were in error, the owner of record or person in charge of the property may
     appeal.

     If an appeal hearing is sought, the owner of record or person in charge of the
     property shall submit a written request to the Compliance Officer within 15 days of
     the date of the Compliance Notice or Compliance Order.

B. Appeals will be heard by a Hearings Officer appointed by the Board of
     Commissioners. The person requesting an appeal shall be given the opportunity to
     present evidence to the Hearings Officer. Following the appeal hearing, the Hearings
     Officer shall issue a written determination.

     If the person appealing the Compliance Notice or Compliance Order is unsatisfied
     with the result of the appeal hearing, they may appeal the decision subject to
     Section   3.230.      The   request   for an   appeal   shall      be   submitted      in writing     to the

                                                                     Chapter 3 — Administrative Enforcement.

                                   Bon                               "b67                   47 ASE
Page 3-20

    Compliance          Officer within       15     days      of the    issuance     of the written    determination
    notice.

Cc. The Wasco County Code Compliance and Nuisance Abatement Ordinance Appeals
     Hearing Procedure (Section 3.260 Attachment A) shall govern any requested appeal
    hearing.

    The County shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
    the findings, abatement costs, penalties, fees, County charges or other information
    in the Compliance            Notice       or     Compliance          Order     were   lawful   pursuant        to   this
    ordinance.

    If the Hearings Officer determine(s) the findings, abatement costs, penalties, fees,
    County charges, or other information were lawful, the Hearings Officer shall enter a
    written     order     affirming    the        findings,     abatement        costs,   penalties,   fees,       County
    charges or other information in the Compliance Notice or Compliance Order and the
    owner of record or person in charge of the property shall be responsible for meeting
    the requirements of the Compliance Notice or Compliance                                  Order and     paying all
    abatement costs, penalties, fees, and County charges.

    If the Hearings Officer determine(s) the findings, abatement costs, penalties, fees,
    County charges or other information were not lawful, the owner of record or person
    in charge of the property shall not be responsible for meeting the requirements of the
    Compliance          Notice or Compliance               Order.      If there is a lien, storage costs or other
    payment for abatement costs, those shail be the responsibility of the County.

    The Hearings Officer may modify the amount of the civil penalty based on the record
    and testimony received at the appeal hearing and subject to Section 3.220(C).

SECTION        3.220     Appeal Fees and Deposits

A. To help defray the costs of processing the appeal, all appeals shall be accompanied
   by an appeal fee of $100 established by the Board of Commissioners, as well as a
    deposit in the amount of any monetary penalty plus all County charges accrued to
    the date the deposit is received. The appeal shall not be heard unless these are
    paid prior to the end of the 165 days indicated in the Compliance Notice or
    Compliance Order.

  . Filing of an appeal shall cause the penalty to cease accruing on a daily basis as of
    the date the appeal is filed with the Code Compliance Officer until 7 days after the
    date of the appeal hearing decision.

  . In the event that the appeal is upheld or partially upheld by the Hearings Officer:

    -       If upheld completely the appeal fee and the deposit shall be refunded

Chapter 3 Administrative Enforcement                                L301      [-     y) >    7     di          }        Se
                                                                                                              Page 3-21

     «    (fupheld partially: up to half of the appeal fee and only that part of the deposit not
         used to cover remaining’ accrued penalties and County charges shall be
         refunded.

D. In the event the appeal is not upheld; the Hearings Officer shall issue a written order
   affirming the findings, abatement costs, penalties, fees and County charges or other
   information in the Compliance Notice or Compliance Order, and the abatement
   costs, penalties, fees, plus all County charges shall immediately become due and
   payable, and the deposit submitted with the appeal request will be applied toward
     payment of those abatement costs, penalties, fees, and County charges.

E. The penalty shall continue to accrue on any remaining‘ violations or nuisances
   beginning 7 days after the date of the Appeal Hearing decision until such time as the
   owner of record or person in charge of the property submits proof to the Compliance
     Officer of having abated the act or condition constituting the failure to comply.

F.   Nothing in this Section shall limit the authority of the Compliance Officer to initiate a
     Proceeding under this Ordinance.

SECTION 3.230 Further Appeals
All appeals of the Hearings Officer determination pursuant to Section 3.210, Right to
Appeal, shall be by writ of review as authorized by ORS 34.010 - 34.100.

SECTION       3.240   Restricting Issuance of Development Permits
It is the County's policy, to the extent authorized by law, not to issue permits or approvals,
nor to renew or extend permits and approvals, for development on any property on which
there already exist uncorrected violations.   This restriction shall continue until such
violations are corrected.

It is also the County's policy not to issue permits or approvals,                       nor to renew or extend
permits or approvals, for "accessory" structures, such as garages and outbuildings, on
vacant property, on property on which there does not already exist a permitted primary
residential   or commercial       use,    and    on    property   for which        a permit    or approval         for a
“primary" use is not sought simultaneously with the "accessory" use permit or approvai.
This restriction shall continue until the primary permitted use is established or a permit for
it is sought.

If review of Wasco       County Planning Department records and/or consultation with Code
Compliance      staff reveals the existence of unresolved                    code violations on the subject
property,     Planning    staff   shall    not    accept     applications         for   requested      permit(s)      or
approvals or renewals or extensions thereof, nor shall staff issue permits or approvals
or   renewals    or extensions       thereof.         Instead,    staff   shall     promptly    consult     with     the

‘Includes all appealed violations and/or nuisances not upheld in the hearing

                                                            J 2jP* 59
                                                                          Chapter 3 - Administrative Enforcement    Se
Page 3-22

Compliance Officer to determine whether the permit or approval, or the renewal                                          or
extension thereof, is being sought in order to correct the existing code violation(s).

If the requested permit or approval, or renewal or extension thereof, is determined to be
required      for code      compliance,          the application    shall    be   accepted,        or the permit        or
approval       shall   be   issued      if all     necessary     conditions       have      been    met.     Planning
Department staff shall refer persons not allowed to apply for permits or approvals, or to
whom issuance of permits or approvals or renewals or extensions thereof has been
denied under this            subparagraph,           to   the   Compliance        Officer    to    discuss       required
corrective action.

SECTION 3.250 Recorded Notice of Violation
If the Compliance Officer finds violations of this Ordinance on any property, the
Compliance Officer may record with the County Clerk information regarding County
code violations and the potential for liens to be placed on the property as a result of
these violations. The document will notify a prospective buyer that the property is
tainted and can not legally be developed.

A. The Code Compliance Officer will send a Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation
   Recorded on Deed via First Class Mail and certified mail, return receipt requested to
   the owner of record or person in charge of the property or served by personal
   service. Notice to the owner of record or person in charge of the property may also
   be accomplished by posting the Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation Recorded on
   Deed on the property or personal property.

B. The Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation Recorded on Deed Shall Include:

     1. The street address or a description sufficient for identification of the property on
        which the nuisance exists;

    2. A statement that one or more violations of this Ordinance exist at the property
       with a general description of the violation(s) and the section(s) violated;

    3. A request that the owner of record or person in charge of the property contact the
       Compliance Officer to resolve the violation(s);

    4.      Specification of a 15 day response period during which the property may be
            brought into compliance with this Ordinance before a Recorded Notice of
            Violation is attached to the property deed record.

    5.      Disclose the right to appeal the findings of the Notice of Failure to
            Comply/Administrative Penalty and a description of the time limits for requesting
            an appeal, as described in Section 3.210, Right to Appeal, to the owner of record
            or person in charge of the property.

Chapter $< Administrative Enforcement                           (30         / fe O ba7             SD        %      Sb
                                                                                            Page 3-23

C. Voluntary Compliance: If the owner of record or person in charge of the property
   responds to the Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation Recorded on Deed and
   achieves voluntary compliance within 15 days of the notice, a compliance letter will
   be sent and the file will be closed (see also sub-section F).

D. Hearings Officer Order:    If the owner of record or person in charge of the property
   does not file a written appeal within 15 days of the date when the Notice of Failure to
   Comply: Violation Recorded on Deed is served or mailed, the Compliance Officer
   shall forward the Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation Recorded on Deed to the
   Hearings Officer for review and issuance of a written order. However, the
   Compliance Officer does have the discretion to allow for additional time if they feel
   the owner of record or person in charge of the property will abate the violation.

   If the Hearings Officer determine(s) the findings, or other information were lawful, the
   Hearings Officer shall issue a written order affirming the findings, or other
   information in the Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation Recorded on Deed and shall
   sign and submit a Recorded Notice of Violation to the Wasco County Clerk.

   if the Hearings Officer determine(s) the findings, or other information were not lawful,
   the owner of record or person in charge of the property shall not be responsible for
   meeting the requirements of the Notice of Failure to Comply: Violation Recorded                on
   Deed.

   A copy of the Hearings Officer Order shall be sent to the owner of record or person
   in charge of the property by certified mail

E, Recording Notice of Compliance: At such time as the violation is abated by the
owner, a Notice of Compliance will be mailed via first class mail. The owner may record
this document on the property deed with the County Clerk to cover the Recorded Notice
of Violation at the owner’s expense.

SECTION 3.260 Attachments

ATTACHMENT A -
WASCO COUNTY CODE COMPIANCE AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT ORDINANCE
APPEALS HEARING PROCEDURE

A. Open the hearing (read the following)

   1.   The name of the appellant;

   2. The location of nuisance;

   3. The nature of the nuisance as determined by staff; and

   4, The nature of the appeal.

                                         0K ob                                 SI YS
                                                        Chapter 3 — Administrative Enforcement
  Page 3-24

          Rules of Evidence:

         1.    No person shall present irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious
               testimony or evidence;

         2.    Evidence received shall be of a quality that reasonable persons rely upon
               in the conduct of their daily affairs; and

         3. Testimony and evidence must be directed toward the criteria applicable to
            the subject hearing.

       . Disclosure of Interest or Ex Parte Contact:

         1.    The Hearings Officers must disclose any personal or financial interest in the
               matter. If the personal or financial interest could affect the decision, the Hearings
               Officer(s) must disqualify themself;

         2.    The Hearings Officer(s) must report any significant ex parte or pre-hearing
               contacts;

         3. Any member of the audience may to challenge the right of the Hearings Officer(s)
            to hear the matter; and

         4.    Any member of the audience may question the jurisdiction of the Hearings
               Officer(s) to act on behaif of Wasco County in the matter.

         Staff presents their report.

         The Appellant or their Representative is allowed to testify (required to sign name and
 m

         address).

         Any person may testify for the Appeliant (required to sign name and address).
moan

       . Any person may testify against the Appellant (required to sign name and address).

         The Appellant or their Representative may rebut any testimony against them.

         The public hearing will close and the Hearings Officer(s) will deliberate.     The
         Hearings Officer(s) may ask additional questions of staff or the Appellant during
         deliberation.

    . Decision

         1.    The Hearings Officer(s) will make a decision; or

  Anan        20 + Administrative Enforcement           P61     /-   0, 0. 7      Ss a        yb   S¢
                                                                                      Page 3-25

2. The Hearings Officer(s) will move, second, discuss and vote to make a decision.
   A majority vote is required to overturn the staff's determination.

                                        Jaen Bb                          £3 Se
                                                   Chapter 3 — Administrative Enforcement
(20-0007   su   % SG
                                  ATTACHMENT B - CODE COMPLIANCE FLOWCHART                                                            Page 3-25

   Day 1
   Complaint Received
                                        STEP TWO..
                                        ORDER TO
                                       ~ CORRECT

                     y
   Day 5
   Property Researched                Day 30                         Day 55                                      Day 80
   1* site inspection                 2" Site visit                  3% Site visit                               4" Site Visit
                                      No abatement observed          No abatement observed                       No abatement observed

                                                                                     =z
                     A                                               Day 60                                      Day 85
                                                      x              Notice of Failure to                        Order to Abate Nuisance
  If deemed necessary by
  County staff, Summary               Day 35                         Comply/Civil Penalty is                     {if not appealed it must be
  Abatement process is                Order to Correct is sent       posted and sent (15 day                     “affirmed” by Hearings
  initiated at owner's                {15 Day Letter)                expiration; if not appeaied                 Officer) posted and sent
  expense                                                            it must be “affirmed” by
                                                                     Hearings Officer)
                                                                     County charges will be

                                                                                                           LL
                                                                     assessed to owner of                        Day 100
                         .
                                                                     record                                      5" Site Visit
                                                      3                                                          No abatement observed
   Day 10                     |
   Notice of Violation Sent           Day 50                                                                     Abatement warrant

                                                                                                           LL
                                      Owner indicates violation is                       A
   (15 Day Letter)                                                                                               processed.
                                      abated; OR                     Day 75                                      Abatement contractor
                                      Awnitten Abatement Pian        Owner indicates violation is                notified/hired
                                      is prepared                    abated.   If not, Penalty is
                                                                     assessed.

   Day 25
   Owner indicates violation is                                                          i                                        x
   abated; OR                                         ¥              Day 80                                       Day 110
                                                                                                           foe

   Abatement Plan is                  Day 55                         4" Site inspection:                         Violation abated by
                                      3” Site inspection:
                                                                                                       —

   prepared                                                          Confirms abatement; OR                      contractor. Owner billed
                                      Confirms abatement; OR         proceed to final column                     for abatement
                                      proceed to next column

                 %                                                                                                                ¥
   Day 30                                                                            ‘                           Day 110
   2™ Site inspection:                                %              Day 80                                      Mlegal Dwelling subject to
   Confirms abatement; OR             Day 55                         Violation is closed                         removal by County
   proceed to next column             Violation is closed.           If abated after initial 15 day
                                      No further action              feriod, owner must pay
                                      No Civil Penaities             Penaity and County
                                                                     charges ordered by
                                                                     Hearings Officer

   Day 30                                                                             ¥                          Day 170
   Violation is closed.                                              Day 95                                      Lien placed against
   No further action                                                 Penalties are calculated                    property for abatement
                                                                     daily, and assessed                         charges, penalties, County
                                                                     monthly if unpaid                           charges
                                                                     Penalties double after 180
                                                                     Days

                                                                     frou"                                         SS ASL
NOTE: ALL DATES ARE APPROXIMATE AND USED FOR                                                 Chapter 3 — Administrative Enforcement
ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY. ACTUAL TIME FRAMES
ARE CASE SPECIFIC AND MAY VARY.
       The Wasco County Code Compliance and Nuisance Abatement Ordinance as

amended shall take effect on April 5, 2011, which is 90 days after its adoption.

       Regularly passed and adopted this Sth day of January, 2011.

                                           WASCO COUNTY COURT

                                            Mhonudehatts destur
ATTEST:                                    Sherry Hollid         nty Commiggjoner

  Kasou, Mubide
Kathy McBride                              Scott C. Hege, County Commissioner
Administrative Assistant

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                                                 MAK papoee
                                           Rod L. ARunyort, Cog ity Commissioner

 ric J. Nisley
District Attorney

                                           fQoil-0027                        SL RSL