FILED
                                                                      WASCO COUNTY

                                                                    2001 JUL -2   P 2 28

                                                                  KAREN LEBRETON COATS
                                                                       COUNTY CLERK

                      IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                             IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO

     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY PLANNING)
     & DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT'S REQUEST TO       )
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED POST-
     ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS
     TO UPDATE THE EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE AND            =) ORDINANCE
     ASSOCIATED CHAPTERS TO CREATE CONSISTENCY            ) #09-007
     WITH STATE REGULATIONS AND MAKE OTHER                )
     AMENDMENTS APPROPRIATE FOR                           )
     WASCO COUNTY. (FILE NUMBER PLALEG-08-12-             )
     0002)

            NOW   ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

     consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business

     and a majority of the Court being present; and

            WHEREAS, the Wasco County Exclusive Farm Use zone is at least five

     legislative sessions out of date and is no longer consistent with state regulations; and it

     has been approximately ten years since the last significant update to the Exclusive

     Farm Use zone and there are numerous other local issues that can be resolved with an

     amendment to this zone; and

            WHEREAS     The Wasco County Planning & Development Department was

10   directed by the Wasco County Court on 29 January 2009 per Section 9.010(A) of the

ll   Wasco County Land Use & Development Ordinance to initiate a Post-Acknowledgement

12   Plan Amendment process for a legislative text amendment to the Land Use and

                                                                                            p88
     Page 1 - ORDER

                                                         byes bab
       Development Ordinance to update the Exclusive Farm Use Zone and associated

  2.   chapters to create consistency with state regulations and make other amendments

  3.   appropriate for Wasco County; and

 4            WHEREAS:      The Wasco County Planning & Development Department sent

  5    notification to DLCD pursuant to ORS    197.610 on 19 February 2009 and all affected

  6    property owners pursuant to Measure 56 on 2 March 2009; and

  7           WHEREAS:      That on 3 March 2009, at the hour of 3:00 PM at the Gorge

  8    Discovery Center downstairs classroom the Wasco County Planning Department held a

  9    legally notified public workshop with the Wasco County Planning Commission and the

10     Wasco County Court on the above matter to review Agricultural Resource Group

11.    recommendations, back ground information, and listen to public comments for the

12     purpose of identifying preferred options and the need for any additional information prior

13     to the Planning Commission hearing; and

14            WHEREAS:      That on 7 April 2009, at the hour of 3:00 PM at the Gorge Discover

15     Center downstairs classroom, the Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct

16     a legally notified public hearing on the above matter.   The Commission reviewed the

17     record, heard the Staff recommendation and all relevant testimony from parties,

18     deliberated and, on a vote of 5 to 0 (2 Commissioners Absent) elevated the request for

19     a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment with a recommendation of approval to the

20     Wasco County Court with additional amendments; and

21            WHEREAS:      That on 17 June 2009 at the hour of 11:00 AM in the Wasco County

22.    Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse the Wasco County Court met

23     to conduct a legally notified public hearing on the above matter. The County Court

       Page 2 - ORDER

                                                                     [7009-0867                     98
     reviewed the record, heard the Staff recommendation and all relevant testimony from

     the parties, deliberated and, on a vote of 3 — 0 approved the recommendation by the

     Wasco County Planning Commission on the above matter with additional amendments,

     as laid out in Attachment A, to be signed at the next scheduled County Court meeting,

     1 July 2009; and
wa

            NOW THEREFORE        IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:      That the request by the Wasco

     County Planning Department for a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for
~l

     legislative amendments to the Land Use and Development Ordinance to update the
oo

     Exclusive Farm Use Zone and associated chapters to create consistency with state

10   regulations and make other amendments appropriate for Wasco County is approved.

11          SIGNED this 1st day of July, 2009.

     Approved as to Form:                         WASCO    COUNTY COURT

                                                  Dan Erickseh, Jtdge
     ExieT. Nisley
     Wasco County District Attorney
                                                      Aipaok
                                                  Sherry Holliday, Commissioner

                                                  Bill Lennox, Commissioner

     Page 3 - ORDER

                                                             Ln 00 4 -OD67 3a, 88
                             ATTACHMENT A
                            PLALEG-08-12-0002
                 Amendments to EFU Zone & Related Chapters

         Final Updated Versions of the Following Chapters of the
                     Land Use and Development Ordinance

Title Page:   This has been updated to reflect a new amendment date for the ordinance.

Chapter 1: This includes numerous additions related to the EFU zone.

Chapter 3 - Section 3.210:    This includes all of amendments within the Exclusive Farm
Use Zone.

Chapter 4: All of the parking and loading criteria are being taken from this chapter and
included in Chapter 20 — Site Plan Review.

Chapter 20: All of the parking and loading criteria are being brought to this chapter
from Chapter 4. Additionally the review criteria associated with Home Occupations to
Host Commercial Events are located in this Chapter.

Misc: The following zones are being changed to reflect the relocation of the parking
and loading criteria from Chapter 4 to Chapter 20. Each zone currently includes a
reference to Chapter 4 which has been changed to Chapter 20.
These Zones are not included as part of Attachment A.

   -AR Zone: Section D(S) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -F-1 Zone: Section H(5) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -F-2 Zone: Section I(4)(c)(1)}- Chapter 4 parking reference
   -F-F Zone: Section D(8) — Chapter4 parking reference
   -R-R(5) Zone: Section D(7): Chapter 4 parking reference
   -R-R(10) Zone: Section E(7): Chapter 4 parking reference
   -R-R(2):   Section D(7) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -R-C: Section B & D(7) — Chapter4 parking and loading reference
   -R-I: Section B & D(7) — Chapter4 parking and loading reference
   -TVR: Section D(7) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -TVC: Section E(6) —- Chapter 4 parking reference
   -TVM1: Section E(6) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -TVM2:     Section E(6)— Chapter4 parking reference
   -TVRR: Section D(7) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -TVAG: Section D(6) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -WAMR2: Section D(7) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -WAMRS: Section D(7) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -WAMC2: Section E(9) — Chapter 4 parking reference
   -WAMN2: Section D(9) — Chapter 4 parking reference

                                                           (73007-0867 $38
                                    EFU Related Definitions Only

AUM - Animal Unit Month - Unit of measure of dry forage to graze a 900 - 1000 pound
cow and calf for thirty (30) days as prescribed by the NRCS Rangeland Specialist.

Accepted Farming Practice - A mode of operation common to farms and ranches of a
similar nature necessary for the operation of such farms and ranches, with the intent to
obtain a profit in money, and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm use.

Agricultural Land (Per OAR 660-33-020(1)(a) - Means lands classified by the US Natural
Resource Conservation Service as predominantly Class I-VI in Eastem Oregon; land in
other soil classes that is suitable for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203 taking into
consideration soil fertility; suitability for grazing; climatic conditions; existing and future
availability of water for farm irrigation purposes; existing land use pattems; technological
and energy inputs required; and accepted farming practices; land that is necessary to
permit farm practices to be undertaken on adjacent or nearby agricultural lands; and
land in capability classes other than [ - VI that is adjacent to or intermingled with lands in
capability classes | ~ VI within a farm unit shall be inventoried as agricultural lands even
though this land may not be cropped or grazed. Agricultural land does not include land
within acknowledged urban growth boundaries or land within acknowledged exception
areas for Goal 3 or 4.

Agricultural Purposes - The predominant and gainful use of land for the following
purposes: the growing of hay, grain, seed, row crops, horticultural crops, livestock, poultry
and produce.

Agricultural     Structure     - In any zone     a building or structure   may    be considered      in
conjunction    with farm     use,   as defined   in this Chapter or ORS    215.203   subject to the
following:

    All buildings and structures

    a.   The lot or parcel is enrolled in a farm deferral program with the County Assessor,

    b. The owner provides a farm management plan that is reviewed and approved by the
         Planning Department;

    Agricultural Exempt Buildings Only

    c.   The owner submits a signed floor plan showing           that only farm   related   uses will
         occupy the building space; and

    d.   The   owner will file a restrictive covenant     in the deed   records of Wasco     County
         agreeing the it will be used solely as will be solely used as an agricultural building
         as defined by ORS 455.315(2).

                                                                                            Page 1 of 9

                                                             b2ws-0267                                    S38
Boarding of Horses       - The boarding of horses for profit in specified zones other than the
Exclusive Farm Use zone shall include the following:

    a. The stabling, feeding and grooming for a fee, or the renting of stalls for and the care
       of horses not belonging to the owner of the property; and,

    b. Related facilities, such as training arenas, corrals and exercise tracks.

         The boarding of horses for profit does not include the following:

    a. The mere pasturage of horses or the boarding of horses not owned by the property
         owner for the purpose of breeding with the owner's stock;

    b. The incidental stabling of not more than four (4) horses;

    c.   The boarding of horses for friends or guests where no charge is made; and

    d. Equestrian activities when the raising, feeding, training or grooming of horses is a
       farm use by the property owner of the land qualifying for farm assessment under
       regulations of the State Department of Revenue.

Campground - A campground is an area devoted to ovemight temporary use for
vacation, recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes.
Overnight temporary       use    in the same   campground        by a camper    or camper's    vehicle
shail not exceed a total of 30 days during any consecutive 6 month period.

Commercial       Agricultural Enterprise - Consists of farm operations that will contribute
in a substantial way to the area's existing agricultural economy;                 and   help maintain
agricultural processors and established farm markets. When determining whether a
farm is part of the commercial agricultural enterprise, not only what is produced, but
how much and how it is marketed shall be considered. These are important factors
because of the intent of Goal 3 to maintain the agricultural economy of the state.

Compost - A mixture of decaying, organic matter, such as leaves and manure, used
as fertilizer.

    a.   Green Feedstocks — Materials low in: (1) Substances that pose a present or future
         hazard to human        health or the environment; (2) Substances that are low in, and
         unlikely to support, human pathogens.       Green feedstocks include but are not limited
         to yard debris, animal manure, wood waste, vegetative food waste, produce waste,
         vegetative   restaurant    waste,   vegetative   food    processor    byproducts   and   crop
         residue.

    b.   Non-Green Feedstocks — Materials high in:         (1) Substances that pose a present or
         future hazard to human health or the environment; (2) Substances that are high in,

                                                                  2009-0207                        bryB
        and likely to support, human pathogens. Non-green feedstocks include but are not
        limited to animal parts and byproducts, mixed materials containing animal parts or
        byproducts, dead animals and municipal solid waste.

   c.   Agricultural Composting - Composting as an agricultural operation conducted on
        lands employed for farm use.

   d.   Institutional Composting — The composting of green feedstocks generated from the
        facility's own activities..     It may also include supplemental feedstocks.    Feedstocks
        must be composted on-site, the compost produced must be utilized within the
        contiguous boundaries of the institution and not offered for sale or use off-site.
        Institutional composting includes but is not limited to parks, apartments,
        universities, schools, hospitals, golf courses and industrial parks.

   e.   Reload Facility — A facility or site that accepts and        reloads only yard debris and
        wood waste for transport to another location.

Date of Creation and Existence - Within the Exclusive Farm Use zone, when a lot,
parcel or tract is reconfigured pursuant to applicable law after November 4, 1993 or July
1, 2001, the effect of which is to qualify a lot, parcel or tract for the siting of a dwelling or
a non-farm division respectively, the date of the reconfiguration is the date of creation or:
existence. Reconfigured means any change in the boundary of the lot, parcel or tract. A
property line adjustment which does not have the effect of qualifying an otherwise non-
qualifying tot, parcel or tract for a dwelling or a non-farm division respectively, does not
change the date of creation.

Farm Management          Plan -       Shall include information applicable to the specific farm use
from the following list: Proof that the parcel is enrolled in a farm deferral program with the
Wasco County Assessor; written description of a current farm operation that identifies the
number of acres of land in current production, type and number of acres planted to a
specific crop; the number of animals grazing or being raised on the farm parcel; existing
farm structures (including irrigation sprinklers) supporting the farm use; and any existing
water rights. The plan shall include a description of the number of employees working the
farm parcel, and their responsibilities.          The   plan shall include a map that shows the
location of all farm activities including but not limited to registered fields (Farm Services
Agency map), grazing areas and areas dedicated to farm structures.

Farm    Unit - means the contiguous and             noncontiguous tracts in common       ownership
used by the farm operator for farm use as defined in ORS 215.203.

Farm Use - The current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a profit
in money by raising, harvesting and selling crops or the feeding, breeding, management
and sale of, or the produce of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or honeybees or
for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or horticultural use or
animal husbandry or any combination thereof.

                                                                                           Page 3 of 9

                                                                  3.009-bae7 7%88
Farm use includes the preparation, storage and disposal by marketing or otherwise of
the products or by-products raised on such land for human or animal use. Farm use
also includes the current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit in money by stabling or training equines including but not limited to providing
riding lessons, training clinics and schooling shows.
Farm    use    also        includes    the propagation,   cultivation,     maintenance       and   harvesting   of
aquatic, bird and animal species that are under the jurisdiction of the State Fish and
Wildlife Commission,             to the extent allowed      by the rules adopted            by the commission.
Farm    use also includes the on-site construction and maintenance                           of equipment and
facilities used for the activities described in this subsection.

Preparation of products or by-products includes but is not limited to the cleaning,
treatment, sorting, or packaging of the products or by-products.       Products or by-
products raised on such land" means that those products or by-products are raised on
the farm operation where the preparation occurs or on other farm land provided the
preparation is occurring only on land being used for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit in money from the farm use of the land.

Farm use does not include the use of land subject to the provisions of ORS chapter
321(Timber Taxation), except land used exclusively for growing cultured Christmas
trees as defined below or land described in ORS 321.267 (3) or 321.824 (3).

   Cultured Christmas trees” means trees:

   a.   Grown         on    lands     used   exclusively for that purpose,        capable     of preparation    by
        intensive cultivation methods such as plowing or tuming over the soil;

   b.   Of a marketable species;

   c.   Managed to produce trees meeting U.S. No. 2 or better standards for Christmas
        trees as specified by the Agriculture Marketing Services of the United States
        Department of Agriculture; and

   d.   Evidencing periodic maintenance practices of shearing for Douglas fir and pine
        species, weed and brush control and one or more of the following practices:
        Basal pruning, fertilizing, insect and disease control, stump culture, soil
        cultivation, irrigation.

   Current employment of land for farm use includes:

   a. Farmland, the operation or use of which is subject to any farm-related government
        program;

   b.   Land     lying fallow for one           year as a normal         and    regular requirement     of good
        agricultural husbandry;

                                                                               p> 109.0267              Page yi      g 9
. Land   planted    in     orchards   or other   perennials,     other   than     land   specified    in
  subparagraph (d) of this paragraph, priorto maturity;

. Land not in an exclusive farm use zone which has not been eligible for
  assessment at special farm use value in the year prior to planting the current
  crop and has been planted in orchards, cultured Christmas trees or vineyards for
  at least three years;

. Wasteland,     in an exclusive farm       use zone,       dry or covered      with water,    neither
  economically tillable nor grazeable, lying in or adjacent to and in common
  ownership with a farm use land and which is not currently being used for any
  economic farm use;

  Except for land under a single family dwelling, land under buildings supporting
  accepted farm practices, including the processing facilities allowed by ORS
  215.213 (1)(x) and 215.283 (1)(u) and the processing of farm crops into biofuel
  as commercial activities in conjunction with farm use under ORS 215.213 (2)(c)
  and 215.283 (2)(a);

. Water impoundments lying in or adjacent to and in common ownership with farm
  use land;                     ;                        ;

. Any land constituting a woodlot, not to exceed 20 acres, contiguous to and
  owned by the owner of land specially valued for farm use even if the land
  constituting the woodlot is not utilized in conjunction with farm use;

  Land lying idle for no more than one year where the absence of farming activity is
  due to the illness of the farmer or member of the farmer's immediate family. For
  purposes of this paragraph, illness includes injury or infirmity whether or not such
  illness results in death;

  Any land described under ORS 321.267(3) or 321.824(3);

. Land   used    for the     processing   of farm   crops     into biofuel,     as defined    in ORS
  315.141, if:

  (1) Only the crops of the landowner are being processed;

  (2) The biofuel from all of the crops purchased for processing into biofuel is used
     on the farm of the landowner; or

  (3) The landowner is custom processing crops into biofuel from other landowners
      in the area for their use or sale.

                                                                                                  78 g
                                                                                              Page 5 of 9

                                                              O009-Loo7
   Accepted Farming Practice
   As used in this subsection, “accepted farming practice” means a mode of operation
   that is common to farms of a similar nature, necessary for the operation of such
   farms to obtain a profit in money, and customarily utilized in conjunction with farm
   use.

Golf Course - An area of land with highly maintained natural turf laid out for the game
of golf with a series of 9 or more holes, each including a tee, a fairway, a putting green,
and often one or more natural or artificial hazards.

High    Value   Land   (Per   OAR    660-33-020(8)(a)         - Means     land    in a tract composed
predominantly of soils that are:

   a.   Irigated and classified prime, unique, Class | or Il; or

   b.   Not irrigated and classified prime, unique, Class | or Il.

In addition to that land described         above,   high value farmland,          if in Eastem    Oregon,
includes tracts growing specified perennials as demonstrated by the most recent aerial
photography of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service of the U.S.
Department of Agriculture taken prior to November 4, 1993. "Specified perennials” means
perennials grown for market or research purposes including, but not limited to, nursery
stock, berries, fruits, nuts, Christmas trees, or vineyards, but not including seed crops, hay,
pasture or alfalfa. (added 12/96)

Hunting Preserve - Pursuant to ORS 497.248 Subsections (1) - (4). The Oregon
Department of Fish and Wildlife Commission issues a private hunting preserve license if
the preserve contains not more than 1,280 acres and is on one continuous tract of land
owned by the applicant or leased by the applicant for a period of at least five years.

Hunting, fishing or shooting preserve               - Shall    comply     with    provisions   of Oregon
Administrative Rule 635, Division 47.

Irrigated   - means    watered     by an   artificial or controlled      means,     such   as sprinklers,
furrows, ditches, or spreader dikes. An area or tract is “irrigated” if it is currently
watered, or has established rights to use water for irrigation, including such tracts that
receive water for irrigation from a water or irrigation district or other provider. For the
purposes of this division, an area or tract within a water or irrigation district that was
once inigated shall continue to be considered "irrigated" even if the irrigation water was
removed or transferred to another tract.

Medical     Hardship   — Means      a temporary     circumstance        caused    by serious     illness or
infirmity, not to exceed two years in duration, and authorized by a licensed                      medical
practitioner (Medical Doctor, Physicians Assistant or Nurse Practitioner).

                                                                                                  Page 6 of 9

                                                                   TOR           O#- 0267             /O¥       88
Mobile Home for Storage — Mobile homes may not be used as storage buildings in any
zones.

Recreational Vehicle or Camping Vehicle - A vacation trailer or other unit with or without
motive power which is designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily for
recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes, and is identified as a
recreational vehicle by the manufacturer. A recreational or camping          vehicle shall be
considered a dwelling unit if any of the following are true:

   a.   It is connected to a sewer system (including septic tank) except for the purpose of
        emptying the holding tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

   b.   It is connected to water or electrical lines except for purposes of charging the
        batteries or filling water tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

        NOTE: Allowances can be made for subsections a and b above if in the opinion
        of the Compliance Officer evidence suggests that the use of the RV is occasional
        and temporary for the purpose of accommodating visitors

   c.   It is occupied for more than 60 days, on the same property, in any consecutive 12
        month period; or

   d.   It is parked on property that is without a legally placed dwelling for more than 30
        days during any 6 month period.

Review Types -
   a. Type | (Ministerial/Nondiscretionary)
      These procedures are decided by the Director, or the Director's designee without
        public notice or public hearing.   They do not require interpretation or the exercise
        of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval standards. Type | does not
        qualify as a “land use decision” under Oregon Revised Statute (ORS)
        197.015(11).

   b. Type II (Administrative/Discretionary)
      These procedures are decided by the Director or the Director's designee with
        notice, as established by Chapter 2, and appeal period established by ORS
        215.416(11).   They do require interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal
        judgment in evaluating approval standards and qualify as a land use decision
        under ORS 197.015(11). An appeal of a Type Il decision becomes a Type Iil
        review.

   c. Type Ill (Quasi Judicial/Planning Commission or County Court)

        Planning Commission
        These procedures are initially heard and decided solely by the Planning
        Commission or on appeal from the Planning Director with the hearings process,

                                                         TF Q067 tov                   1% 88
        notice and appeal period governed by ORS 197.763.               They do require
        interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval
        standards and qualify as a land use decision under ORS             197.015(11).

        County Court
        These procedures are initially heard and decided solely by the County Court or
        on appeal from the Planning Commission with the hearings process, notice and
        appeal period governed by ORS 197.763. They do require interpretation or the
        exercise of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval standards and qualify
        as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

   d. Type IV (Legislative/County Court)
      These procedures are heard and decided solely by the County Court after an
      initial hearing and recommendation is made by the Planning Commission. The
        hearings    process,   notice   and   appeal   period    are   governed   by ORS       197.763.
        They do require substantia! interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal
        judgment and qualify as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

Shooting    Course     - Any   lot(s) or parcel(s) where        target shooting   (excluding     hunting
preserves) is conducted on a commercial basis.

Solid Waste - All putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including, but not limited to,
garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, waste paper and cardboard, grass clippings,
composts, sewer sludge, residential, commercial, and industrial appliances, equipment
and furniture, discarded or inoperable vehicles, vehicle parts or vehicle tires, manure,
vegetable or animal solid and semisolid waste and dead animals. The term Solid Waste
does not include:

   a.   Materials    used   for fertilizer or for other    productive     purposes   on   land    in the
        growing and harvesting of crops or the raising of fowl or animals;

   b.   Septic tank and cesspool pumping or chemical toilet waste;

   c.   Reusable beverage containers as defined in ORS 459A.725; and

   d.   Source separated principal recyclable materials as defined in ORS Chapter 459
        and the Rules promulgated thereunder, which have been purchased or
        exchanged for fair market value.

Tract - One or more contiguous lots or parcels in the same ownership.

Utility Facilities Necessary for Public Service - Facilities for providing communication,
water, sewers or transportation and facilities accessory to energy facilities.

                                                            773 069-Loe9                         a8
Utility Facility Service Lines — Utility lines and accessory facilities or structures that end
at the point where the utility service is received by the customer and that are located on
One or more of the following:

   a. A public right of way;

   b. Land immediately adjacent to a public right of way, provided the written consent of
        all adjacent property owners has been obtained; or

   c.   The property to be served by the utility.

Yurt - A round, domed shelter of cloth or canvas on a collapsible frame.

                                                                                     Page 9 of 9

                                                       DB009 Lotz /3%8%
                                                                                                        Page 3.210-1

SECTION 3.210                  EXCLUSIVE FARM USE ZONE

A.   Purpose
     The purpose          of    the   Exclusive   Farm     Use   Zone     is   to   preserve      and     maintain
     agricultural lands for farm use consistent with historical, existing and future needs,
     including economic needs that pertain to the production of agricultural products. And
     to permit the establishment of only those uses that are compatible with agricultural
     activities consistent with the applicable Statutory and Administrative Rule provisions
     of ORS Chapter 215 and OAR Chapter 660, Division 33.

     Uses,    buildings        or structures   hereafter   erected,     structurally   altered,     enlarged       or
     moved and land hereafter used in the Exclusive Farm Use zone shall comply with
     the following regulations. If these regulations are preempted by mandatory ORS’s
     or OAR’s those shall be applied directly pursuant to ORS                   197.646.

B.   Uses Permitted Without Review
     The following uses may be allowed on lands designated Exclusive Farm Use without
     review.

     FARM/FOREST USES

     1.   Farm use as defined by Section 1.090, Definitions and ORS 215.203 that is non-
          discretionary.

     2.   Propagation and harvesting of a forest product.

     NATURAL RESOURCE

     3.   Creation   of, restoration       of or enhancement          of wetlands       that do     not include
          development as defined by Section 22.030 in a FEMA designated Flood Zone.                                    If
          the project is located wholly or partially within a FEMA designated Flood Zone
          and includes structural development it shall be subject to Section D(2) below.

     MINERAL, AGGREGATE, SOIL & GAS

     4.   Operations for the exploration for minerals as defined                    by ORS      517.750.        Any
          activities or construction relating to such operations shall not be a basis for an
          exception under ORS 197.732(1)(a) or (b).

     5.   Operations for the exploration for and production of geothermal! resources as
          defined by ORS 522.005, and oil and gas as defined by ORS 520.005 including
          the placement and operation of compressors, separators and other customary
          production  equipment    for an individual well adjacent to the wellhead.
          (Processing of said resources is a conditional use.)

                                                                      Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                                   009-lot 7                                158 8
Page 3.210-2

    TRANSPORTATION                FACILITIES

    6.    Climbing and passing lanes within a highway right of way existing as of July 1,
          1987.

    7.    Reconstruction or modification of public roads and highways, including the
          placement of utility facilities overhead and in the subsurface of public roads and
          highways along the public right-of-way, but not including additional travel lanes,
          where no removal or displacement of buildings would occur and not resulting in
          any new land parcels.

    8.    Temporary public road and highway detours that will be abandoned and restored
          to original condition when no longer needed.

    9.    Minor betterment of existing public roads and highway related facilities such as
          maintenance yards, weigh stations and rest areas within right of way existing as
          of July 1, 1987, and contiguous public owned property utilized to support the
          operation and maintenance of public roads and highways.

     UTILITY/DISPOSAL FACILITIES

     10. Utility facility service        lines:   Utility facility service   lines are   utility lines and
          accessory facilities or structures that end at the point where the utility service is
          received by the customer and that are located on one or more of the following:

          a. A public right of way;

          b. Land     immediately       adjacent to a public right of way,         provided   the written
                consent of all adjacent property owners has been obtained; or

          c.    The property to be served by the utility.

     11. Transport of biosolids to tract of land for application. Pursuant to ORS 215.247 if
         biosolids are transported by vehicle to a tract on which the biosolids will be
         applied to the land under a license, permit or approval issued by the Department
         of Environmental Quality under ORS 454.695, 459.205, 468B.050, 468B.053 or
         468B.055 or in compliance with rules adopted under ORS 468B.095, the
         transport and the land application are allowed outright.

          The application of biosolids which do not meet these criteria is subject to Section
          D(2) below.

     12. Irrigation canals, delivery lines and those structures and accessory operational
         facilities associated with a district as defined in ORS 540.505.

Section 3.210 - "A-1” Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                                 )     d           /S x
                                                                                           Page 3.210-3

     COMMERCIAL USES

     13.An outdoor gathering as defined in ORS 433.735 or other gathering of fewer
        than 3,000 persons that is not anticipated to continue for more than 120 hours in
        any three month period.

     14.Minor Home occupation that:

        a.   Is carried on within a lawfully established dwelling only by members of the
             family who reside in the dwelling;

        b. Does not serve clients or customers on-site;

        c.   Does not produce odor, dust, glare, flashing lights or noise;

        d.   Does not occupy more than 25 percent of the floor area of the dwelling; and

        e.   Does not include the on-premises display or sale of stock in trade.

        Any Home      Occupation that exceeds these standards is Major and subject to
        Section E(26) below.

C.   Uses Permitted Subject to Property Development Standards
     The following uses and activities may be allowed subject to a Type I Review on a
     legal parcel designated   Exclusive Farm Use subject to the Subsection             F - Property
     Development Standards, Chapter 10 - Fire Safety Standards and any other listed
     standards.

     1. Agricultural Structure: Buildings and structures other than dwellings customarily
        provided in conjunction with farm use subject to meeting the definition in Section
        1.090, Definitions.

     2. Accessory Structure: Buildings and structures accessory to a legally established
        dwelling not provided in conjunction with farm use subject to meeting the
        definition in Section 1.090, Definitions.

     3. A replacement dwelling to be used in conjunction with farm use if the existing
        dwelling has been listed in a county inventory as an historic property and is listed
        on the National Register of Historic Places. The application shall include a Farm
        Management Plan documenting how the replacement dwelling will be used in
        conjunction with a farm use.

D.   Uses Permitted Subject to Standards
     The following uses and activities may be allowed subject to a Type Il Review on a
     legal parcel designated Exclusive Farm Use subject to the Subsection F - Property
     Development Standards, H — Agricultural Protection, Chapter 10 - Fire Safety
     Standards, as well as any other listed, referenced or applicable standards.

                                                           Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                            July 22, 2009

                                                                009- eb                    =/b% a4
Page 3.210-4

    FARM USES

    1.   Farm use as defined by Section 1.090, Definitions and ORS 215.203 that is
         discretionary.

    2.   Land application of reclaimed water, agricultural process or industrial process
         water or biosolids for agricultural horticultural or silvicultural production, or for
         irrigation in connection with a use allowed in an exclusive farm use zone, subject
         to the issuance of a license, permit or other approval by the Department of
         Environmental Quality under ORS 454.695, 459.205, 468B.050, 468B.053 or
         468B.055, or in compliance with rules adopted under ORS 468B.095, and must
         be reviewed subject to Section J(11), Additional Standards below.

    COMMERCIAL USES RELATED TO FARM USE

    3. A winery subject to Section J(6), Additional Standards below and the applicable
       provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review:

    4.   A facility for the processing of farm crops or the production of biofuel as defined
         in ORS 315.141 subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan
         Review following:

         a.    The farm on which the processing facility is located must provide at least one-
               quarter of the farm crops processed at the facility.

         b. The building established for the processing facility shall not exceed 10,000
            square feet of floor area exclusive of the floor area designated for the
            preparation, storage or other farm use or devote more than 10,000 square
            feet to the processing activities within another building supporting farm use.

         c. A processing facility shall comply with all applicable siting standards but the
            standards shall not be applied in a manner that prohibits the siting of the
            processing facility.   No division of a lot or parcel shall be approved to
               separate a processing facility from the farm operation on which it is located.

    5.   Farm     stands     subject     to Section    J(12),   Additional   Standards     below    and     the
         applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review:

    RESIDENTIAL USES

    6.   Earm Dwelling: One single family dwelling customarily provided in conjunction
         with farm use, subject to Section J(5), Additional Standards below.

    7. Accessory Farm Dwelling(s):; An accessory farm dwelling is a single family
       dwelling occupied by a person or persons principally engaged in the farm use of
       the land and whose seasonal or year-round assistance in the management of the
       farm use such as planting, harvesting, marketing or caring for livestock, is or will be
         required     by the farm       operator.     Accessory    farm   dwelling   includes   all types    of

says
Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                    Py 009-bee7                       (78
                                                                                            Page 3.210-5

     residential structures allowed by applicable state building code. Accessory farm
     dwellings are also subject to Section J(2), Additional Standards below.

8.   Relative Farm Dwelling:     A single family dwelling on property used for farm use,
     to be occupied by a relative of the farm operator or farm operator's spouse and
     located on the same lot or parcel as the farm operator's dwelling, subject to the
     following standards:

     a.   The   relative is a child, parent,      stepparent,  grandchild, grandparent,
          stepgrandparent, sibling, stepsibling, niece, nephew or first cousin of the farm
          operator or the farm operator's spouse;

     b.   The farm operator does, or will require the assistance of the relative in the
          management of the farm use;

     c. The    farm   operator   shall   continue   to   play   the   predominant        role    in the
          management and farm use of the farm. A farm operator is a person who
          operates a farm, doing the work and making the day-to-day decisions about
          such things as planting, harvesting, feeding and marketing; and

     d. The farm operator shall submit a farm management plan documenting how
        the relative dwelling is necessary for maintaining the farm use.

9.   Lot of Record Dwelling: One single family dwelling on a lot or tract of record less
     than 80 acres, which does not otherwise qualify for a dwelling Subject to Section
     E(5) (Non-Farm Dwelling) below and also subject to Section J(4), Additional
     Standards below.

10.Alteration, restoration relocation, or replacement of a lawfully                       established
    dwelling subject to Section J(3), Additional Standards below.

NATURAL RESOURCE

11. Creation, restoration of or enhancement of wetlands that includes development
    as defined by Section 22.030 in a FEMA designated floodplain subject to Section
    3.740, Flood Hazard Overlay and Chapter 22, Flood Damage Prevention.

UTILITY/ENERGY FACILITIES

     Pursuant to Section 4.070, General Exceptions to Building Height Requirements,
     these uses do not require a variance if they exceed 35 feet in height.

12. Utility facilities "necessary" for public service, including wetland waste treatment
     systems, but not including commercial utility facilities for the purpose of
     generating electrical power for public use by sale, or transmission towers over
     200 feet in height, subject to Section J(8), Additional Standards                below and the
     applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Pian Review.

                                                            Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                            007 bee? /e g2
Page 3.210-6

    13.A Transmission Facility under 200 feet in height subject to J(8)(a)(1) — (6) below
          and the applicable Subject to Standards criteria of Chapter 19.

    14.A        Wind _ Facility,     Wind        Energy      Conversion      System      (WECS)       or     Wind
          Measurement        Device pursuant to the applicable Subject to Standards criteria of
          Chapter 19.

    15.A Hydroelectric Facility pursuant to the applicable Subject to Standards criteria of
        Chapter 19.

     PARKS/PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC FACILITIES

     16.Public or private schools,              including all buildings essential to the operation of a
          schoo!, except that no such use may be authorized within three miles of an urban
          growth boundary, unless an exception is approved pursuant to ORS                        197.732 and
          OAR 660, Division 4, and further that no such use may be authorized on high
          value farmland. This use is subject to the applicable standards of Chapter 20,
          Site Plan Review.

     17.Model Aircraft take-off and landing sites including such buildings or facilities as
          may     be   reasonably      necessary,         subject   to the   following    standards    and     the
          applicable standards of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review:

          a.    Buildings and facilities shall not be more than 500 square feet in floor area or
                placed on a permanent foundation               unless the building or facility pre-existed
                the use.

          b. The site shall not include an aggregate surface or hard surface area unless
                the surface pre-existed the use.

          c.    “Model aircraft” means a small-scale version of an airplane, glider, helicopter,
                dirigible or balloon that is used or intended to be used for flight and controlled
                by radio, lines or design by a person on the ground.

     18.Churches and cemeteries in conjunction with churches consistent with ORS
        215.441, except that no such use may be authorized within three miles of an
        urban growth boundary, unless an exception is approved pursuant to ORS
        197.732 and OAR 660 Division 4, and further that no such use may be
        authorized on high value farmland. Existing facilities wholly within a farm zone
        may be maintained, enhanced or expanded on the same tract. This use is
          subject to the applicable standards of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

     MISCELLANEOUS USES

     19. On-site filming and related accessory uses may be conducted provided the use
         does not exceed 45 days, subject to Section J(15), Additional Standards below.
         On-site filming in excess of 45 days is a conditional use.

Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                       yyHO0F-              DEZ 7             / Vy gy g
                                                                                                          Page 3.210-7

E. Conditional Uses
   The following uses and activities may be allowed subject to a Type Il or Type Ill
   Review on a legal parcel designated Exclusive Farm Use subject to Subsection F -
   Property Development Standards, H — Agricultural Protection, Chapter 5 —
   Conditional Use Review, Chapter 10 - Fire Safety Standards as well as any other
   listed, referenced, or applicable standards.

   FARM/FOREST USES

   1.   Propagation,      cultivation,        maintenance,      and     harvesting      of   aquatic      or     insect
        species that are not under the jurisdiction of the State Fish and Wildlife
        Commission or insect species. Insect species shall not include any species
        under quarantine by the State Department of Agriculture or the United States
        Department of Agriculture. Notice of all applications under this shall shell be sent
        to the State     Department           of Agriculture   at least 20 calendar days              prior to any
        administrative decision or initial public hearing on the application.

   2.   Primary processing of forest products, subject to the following:

        a.   Such facility does not seriously interfere with accepted farming practices and
             is compatible with farm uses as defined.

        b. Such facility may be approved for a one-year period which is renewable.

        c. The facility is intended to be only portable or temporary in nature.

        d. The primary processing of a forest product, as used in this section, means
             the use of a portable chipper or stud mill or other similar methods                               of initial
             treatment    of a forest product            in order to enable          its shipment to market.
             Forest products as used in this section means                      timber grown         upon a        tract
             where the primary processing facility is located.

   COMMERCIAL USES RELATED TO FARM USE

   3.   Commercial       activities in conjunction with farm use as defined in ORS                         215.203,
        including the processing of farm crops into biofuel not otherwise allowed in the
        definition   of farm     use     or     by   Section   D(4)    above,     subject     to   Section        J(16),
        Additional Standards           below and the applicable standards of Chapter 20, Site
        Plan Review.

   4.   Farm ranch recreation including but not limited to hunting preserves, fishing, fly
        fishing and tying clinics, trap and skeet range, archery range, ranch skills,
        horsemanship, equine eventing, habitat improvement, wildlife viewing, and
        outdoor schools        in conjunction with a commercial               farming operation subject to
        Section J(7), Additional Standards                 below      and   Sections     20.010      — 20.090          of
        Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

                                                                        Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                                            J300t-t0e9 Ady B
                                                                                                          July 22, 2009
Page 3.210-8

          In season fee hunting shal! not be included in Farm Ranch Recreation unless it
          includes lodging or is part of a larger farm ranch recreation operation.

     RESIDENTIAL USES

     5.   Non-Farm Dwelling: One single family dwelling not provided in conjunction with
          farm use, subject to Section J(1), Additional Standards, below.

     6.   A temporary medical hardship dwelling for the term of hardship suffered by the
          existing resident or relative subject to Section 8.070, Temporary Use of a Mobile
          Home (Family Hardship):

     7.   Residential home which means a                     residential treatment or training or adult foster
          home     in    an     existing       dwelling     licensed        by    or    under         the   authority       of    the
          department,         as defined        in ORS      443.400,        under      ORS          443.400      to 443.825,           a
          residential facility registered under ORS 443.480 to 443.500 or an adult foster
          home    licensed          under    ORS       443.705    to 443.825           that provides            residential      care
          alone or in conjunction with treatment or training or a combination thereof for five
          or fewer individuals who need not be related (or as further defined in ORS
          197.660) subject to the applicable standards of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

     ENERGY/UTILITY/SOLID WASTE                           DISPOSAL FACILITIES

     8.   Commercial          utility facilities (Wind,          Hydroelectric or Other) for the purpose of
          generating         power for public use by sale.              This use is subject to the applicable
          provisions of Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial
          Energy Facilities and Chapter 20, Site Plan Review. A wind power generation
          facility shall also be subject to Section J(17), Additional Standards below

     9. Transmission towers greater than 200 feet in height and transmission facilities
          pursuant      to    the    applicable        provisions    of Chapter              19,     Standards       for   Energy
          Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities.

     10.A site for disposal of solid waste approved by a city or county governing body
          and for which a permit has been granted                       by the Department of Environmental
          Quality under ORS                 459.245,      including the equipment,                   facilities, and       building
          necessary for its operation, except that such uses are prohibited on high value
          farmland subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

     11.Composting            facilities (excluding        non-green        feedstocks) for which                 a permit has
          been   granted        by DEQ         under ORS         459.245         and    OAR          340-96-020       subject to
          Section J(10), Additional Standards                       below        and   the         applicable     provisions          of
          Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

     MINERAL/AGGREGATE/GEOTHERMAL USES

     12.Aggregate:   Operations                 conducted for the mining, crushing or stockpiling of
        mineral, aggregate and                  other subsurface resources subject to Section J(9),

Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone                                                                                    gy
July 22, 2009                                                          if               a              7 oD / oy
                                                                                        Page 3.210-9

   Additional Standards below, Section 3.800, Mineral & Aggregate Overlay and the
   applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

13.Processing, as defined by ORS        517.750, of aggregate into asphalt or Portland
   cement, except that asphalt production shall not be permitted within two miles of
   a producing orchard or vineyard,         which is planted as of the date that the
   application for asphalt production       is filed, and subject to WCLUDO Section
   3.800, Mineral and Aggregate Overlay and the applicable provisions of Chapter
   20, Site Plan Review.

14. Processing of other mineral resources and other subsurface resources.

15. Mining and processing of geothermal resources as defined in ORS 522.005 and
    oil and gas as defined by ORS 520.005 not otherwise permitted in Section B(5)
    above and the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

TRANSPORTATION

16.Personal use airports for airplanes and helicopter pads, including associated
   hangars, maintenance and service facilities. A personal-use airport, means an
   airstrip restricted, except for aircraft emergencies, to use by the owner, and, on
   an   infrequent   and   occasional   basis,   by invited   guests,     and    by commercial
   aviation activities in connection with agricultural operations. No aircraft may be
   based on a personal-use airport other than those owned or controlled by the
   owner of the airstrip. Exceptions to the activities permitted under this definition
   may be granted through waiver action by the Oregon Department of Aviation in
   specific instances. A personal-use airport lawfully existing as of September 13,
   1975, shall continue to be permitted subject to any applicable rules of the
   Oregon Department of Aviation.

17.Construction of additional passing and travel lanes requiring the acquisition of
   right of way, but not resulting in the creation of new land parcels.

18.Reconstruction_or modification of public roads and highways involving the
   removal or displacement of structures but not resulting in the creation of new
   land parcels.

19. Improvement of public roads and highway related facilities such as maintenance
    yards, weigh stations, and rest areas, where additional property or right of way is
    required, but not resulting in the creation of new land parcels.

20.Roads, highways and other transportation facilities              and     improvements          not
   otherwise allowed by this ordinance subject to:

   a. Adoption of an exception to the goal related to agricultural lands and to any
      other applicable goal with which the facility or improvement does not comply;
      or

                                                        Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                         July 22, 2009

                                        fae         0267                  gn0y88
Page 3.210-10

          b. ORS 215.296 for those uses identified by rule of the Land Conservation and
             Development Commission as provided in section 3, chapter 529, Oregon
             Laws 1993.

     PARKS/PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC FACILITIES

     21.Fire service facilities providing rural fire protection                          services     subject       to the
         applicable standards of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

     22.Community centers owned by a government agency or a nonprofit organization
        and operated primarily by and for residents of the local rural community subject
        to the applicable standards of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

          A community center authorized under this section                               may   provide services to
          veterans, including but not limited to emergency                               and   transitional shelter,
          preparation and service of meals,                   vocational and educational counseling and
          referral     to   local,    state    or federal    agencies       providing     medical,     mental       health,
         disability income replacement and substance abuse services, only in a facility
        ‘that is in existence on January 1, 2006. The services may not include direct
          delivery of medical,           mental    health, disability income            replacement or substance
          abuse services.

     23.Parks and playgrounds A public park includes only the uses specified under
        OAR 660-034-0035 or 660-034-0040 whichever is applicable and may only be
        established subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
        and ORS 195.120,

     24. Expansion of existing county fairgrounds and _ activities directly relating to county
          fairgrounds governed by county fair boards established pursuant to ORS
          565.210 subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

     25.Any      gathering       subject to review          _by a county      planning     commission        under the
          provisions of ORS            433.76.      These gatherings and any part of which is held in
          open       spaces     are    those    of more     than    3,000     persons     which      continue    or can
          reasonably be expected to continue for more than 120 hours within any three-
          month period           subject      to the   applicable    provisions         of Chapter     20,   Site     Plan
          Review.

     COMMERCIAL USES

     26.Major Home occupation subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site
        Plan Review. Construction of a structure that would not otherwise be allowed in
          the zone is not permitted.

     27.Home Occupation with Room and Board or (Bed and Breakfast) arrangements in
          an existing residence, but may not be sited adjacent to or on high value lands
          within two (2) miles of the National Scenic Area Boundary subject to the
          applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review and the following.

Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                               L3004-02.6                         7        A    %       a        gy
                                                                                         Page 3.210-11

   a.   Room and board arrangements shall:

        (1) Not exceed accommodations        for five    unrelated      persons         beyond      the
            inhabitants of the house; and

        (2) Include month to month rental with food contract.

   b.   Bed and breakfast arrangements shall:

        (1) Not exceed five rooms;

        (2) Limit occupation by guests to no more than 30 consecutive days; and

        (3) Only allow breakfast to be served to guests and no other meals.

28.Home Occupation to Host Commercial Events:            The commercial events are
   associated with a farm use, lawfully approved winery, bed and breakfast or farm
   ranch recreation and includes weddings, receptions, parties, bicycle races
   confined to the subject parcel(s) and other small-scale gatherings hosted for a
   fee that are incidental and subordinate to the primary use of the parcel. The use
   is subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.
   Construction of a structure that would not otherwise be allowed in the zone is not
   permitted.

   If the commercial event is in conjunction with a farm use, the applicant shall
   submit a Farm Management Plan which includes documentation that the
   property is capable of meeting the Farm Dwelling income test in Section J(5)(b)
   below.

29.Doq Kennels, except that such uses are prohibited on high value                        farmland,
   subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

30.Private parks, playgrounds, and campgrounds, as defined in Section 1.090,
    Definitions, except that such uses are prohibited on high value farmland, subject
   to Section J(14) Additional Standards      below and the applicable provisions of
   Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

31.Golf courses: A 9 or 18 hole regulation golf course or a combination 9 and 18
    hole regulation golf course except that such uses are prohibited on high value
    farmland, subject to Section J(13), Additional Standards below and the
    applicable provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

32.Operations for the extraction and_bottling           of   water     subject     to    applicable
   provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

33.On-site filming if the activity exceeds 45 days on any site within a one-year
    period or involves the erection of sets that would remain in place for longer than

                                                        Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                           duly 22, 2000

                                            L009. DIC?                                  BY by LB
Page 3.210-42

           45 days. These activities may include administrative or security functions and
           may include the use of campers, trailers, or similar temporary facilities. This use
           is also subject to Section J(15), Additional Standards                     below and the applicable
           provisions of Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.

F.   Property Development Standards
     Property development standards are designed to preserve and protect the character
     and        integrity        of     agricultural   lands,     and   minimize   potential      conflicts     between
     agricultural operations and adjoining property owners.    A variance subject to
     WCLUDO Chapter 6, or Chapter 7 may be utilized to alleviate an exceptional or
     extraordinary circumstances that would otherwise preclude the parcel from being
     utilized.      A variance to these standards is not to be used to achieve a preferential
     siting that could otherwise be achieved by adherence to these prescribed standards.

     1. Setbacks

           a.    Property Line

                 (1)All dwellings (farm and non farm) and accessory structures _not_in
                    conjunction with farm use, shall comply with the following property line
                     setback requirements:

                     (a) If adjacent            land   is being     used   for perennial       or annual      crops,   the
                            setback shall be a minimum of 200 feet from the property line.

                     (b) If adjacent land is being used for grazing, is zoned Exclusive Farm Use
                            and has never been cultivated or is zoned F-1 or F-2, the setback shall
                            be a minimum of 100 feet from the property line.

                     (c) If the adjacent land is not in agricultural production and not designated
                            Exclusive Farm Use, F-1 or F-2, the setback shall be a minimum                             25
                            Feet from the property line.

                     (d) If any of the setbacks listed above                 conflict with the Sensitive Wildlife
                            Habitat Overlay the following               shall apply and        no variance      shall be
                            required:

                            i.        The structure shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from the road
                                      right of way or easement;

                            ii. The structure shall be located within 300 feet of the road right of
                                way or easement pursuant Section 3.920(F)(2), Siting Standards;
                                      and

                            iii. As part of the application the applicant shall document how they
                                 are siting the structure(s) to minimize       impacts to adjacent
                                      agricultural uses to the greatest extent practicable.

Section 3210 - "Ae" Exclusive Farm Use Zone                     /3009-         Dae         7               y) SHE ra
                                                                                 Page 3.210-13

  (2) Farm structures shall be set back a minimum of 25 feet from the property
      line.

   (3) Additions, modifications or relocation of existing structures shall comply
       with all EFU setback standards. Any proposal that cannot meet these
       standards is subject to the following:

      (a) Dwellings:    The proposed addition modification or relocation shall not
         result in     nonconformity or greater nonconformity           to property        line
         setbacks      or resource buffer requirements unless           the addition        will
         extend a structure further away from and perpendicular to the property
         line or resource. Any proposal that would place a relocated dwelling or
         extend an existing dwelling into or further toward the property line or
         resource, or expand an existing dwelling parallel into a setback or
         buffer shall also be subject to Chapters 6 & 7, Variances and any other
         applicable review criteria.

      (b) Farm & Non-Farm       buildings and structures:      The proposed addition,
         modification or relocation shall not result in nonconformity or greater
         nonconformity     to   property  line  setbacks    or  resource   buffer
         requirements.    if the building or structure currently conforms to all
         setback standards and the proposal would result in non-conformity a
         Chapter 6 or 7 variance will be required. {f the building or structure
         currently does not conform to all setback standards and the proposal
         would increase the non-conformity it shall be subject to the applicable
         provisions of Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots.

   (4) Property line setbacks do not apply to fences, signs, roads, or retaining
      walls less than four (4) feet in height.

      Front yard (road) property line setbacks do not apply to parking areas for
      farm related uses.     However,    parking areas for farm related uses must
      meet side and rear yard property line setbacks.

b. Waterways:

   (1) Resource Buffers: All bottoms of foundations of permanent structures, or
       similar permanent fixtures shall be setback from the high water line or
      mark, along all streams, lakes rivers, or wetlands.

      (a) A minimum distance of one hundred (100) feet when measured
         horizontally at a right angle for all waterbodies designated as fish
         bearing by any federal, state or local inventory.

      (b) A minimum distance of fifty (50) feet when measured horizontally at a
         right angle for all waterbodies designated as non fish bearing by any
         federal, state or local inventory.

                                                  Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                    PR0e b2e7                                  a» 8
                                                                                   July 22, 2009
Page 3.210-14

                   (c)A     minimum        distance            of    twenty         five     (25)   feet   when   measured
                       horizontally      at      a     right        angle     for      all    waterbodies     (seasonal   or
                       permanent) not identified on any federal, state or local inventory.

                   (d) If the proposal          does     not meet these standards                     it shall be subject to
                       Section (a)(3), Additions or Modifications to Existing Structures, above.

                   (e) The following uses are not required to meet the waterway setbacks,
                       however they must be sited, designed and constructed to minimize
                       intrusion into the riparian area to the greatest extent possible:

                       {i) Fences;

                       (ii) Streets, roads, and paths;

                       (iii) Drainage facilities, utilities, and irrigation pumps;

                       (iv)Water-related and water-dependent uses such as docks and
                           bridges;

                       (v) Forest practices regulated by the Oregon Forest Practices Act;

                       (vi)Agricultural activities and farming practices, not including the
                           construction of buildings, structures or impervious surfaces; and

                       (vii)Replacement of existing structures with structures in the same
                          location that do not disturb additional riparian surface area.

                (2) Floodplain:    Any development including but not limited to buildings,
                    structures or excavation, proposed within a FEMA designated flood zone
                    shall be subject to Section 3.740, Flood Hazard Overlay and Chapter 22,
                    Flood Damage Prevention.

          c.    Irrigation Ditches:
                All dwellings and structures shall be located outside of the easement of any
                irrigation or water district.          In the absence of an easement, all dwellings and
                structures shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from the centerline of
                irrigation ditches and pipelines which continue past the subject parcel to
                provide water to other property owners. Substandard setbacks must receive
                prior approval from the affected irrigation district. These setbacks do not
                apply to fences and signs.

          d.    Wasco County Fairground

                (1) Front Yard - No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located closer
                    than ten (10) feet from the rights-of-way of a public road.

Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                         P3004-                   0207               a 7483
                                                                                            Page 3.210-15

           (2) Side Yard - No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located closer
               than seven (7) feet for buildings not exceeding two and one-half (2 & 1/2)
               stories in height; for buildings exceeding two and one-half stories in height,
               such side yard shall be increased three (3) feet in width for every story or
               portion thereof that such buildings' height exceeds two and one-half stories.

           (3) Rear Yard - No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than ten
               (10) feet from the rear yard property line.

           (4) RV_Spaces — RV spaces are subject to the setback                     requirements         of
               Chapter 17, Recreational Vehicle Parks.

           (5) Existing & Replacement Structures — All lawfully established                  structures
               which do not conform to current setback standards shall be allowed to be
               expanded, or replaced and expanded into the required setback as long as
               the expansion does not encroach upon the required setback more than
               the existing structure.

2.   Height:     Except for those uses allowed by Section 4.070, General Exception to
     Building    Height Requirements, no building or structure shall exceed a height of
     35 feet. Height is measured from average grade.

3. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on comer properties shall be a minimum of
   thirty (30) feet.

4.   Signs:

     a.    Permanent signs shall not project beyond the property line.

     b. Signs shall not be illuminated or capable of movement.

           Permanent signs shall describe only uses permitted and conducted on the
           property on which the sign is located.

          . Size and Height of Permanent Signs:

           (1) Freestanding signs shall be limited to twelve square feet in area and 8
               feet in height measured from natural grade.

           (2) Signs on buildings are permitted in a ratio of one square foot of sign area
               to each linear foot of building frontage but in no event shall exceed                    32
               square feet and shall not project above the building.

           Number of permanent signs:

           (1) Freestanding signs shall be limited to one at the entrance of the property.
                Up to one additional    sign may    be placed     in each    direction of vehicular

                                                             Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                              July 22, 2009

                                                   f3009-(olg =                                  > 88
Page 3.210-16

                   traffic running parallel to the property if they are more than 750 feet from
                   the entrance of the property.

                (2) Signs on buildings shall be limited to one per building and only allowed on
                    buildings conducting the use being advertised.

          f.    Temporary signs such as signs advertising the sale or rental of the premise
                are permitted provided the sign is erected no closer than ten feet from the
                public road right-of-way.

     5.   Lighting: Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded and hooded
          in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent properties,
          roadways and waterways. Shielding and hooding materials shall be composed
          of nonreflective, opaque materials.

     6.   Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 20.

     7.   New Driveways:          Ail new driveways and increases or changes of use for existing
          driveways which access a public road shall obtain a Road Approach Permit from
          the appropriate jurisdiction, either the Wasco County Public Works Department
          or the Oregon Dept. of Transportation.

G. Property Size Standards
   Subdivisions and Series Partitions pursuant to ORS             92.010 - 92.190, and 92.305-
     92.495: Subdivisions are prohibited in the Exclusive Farm Use Zone.                   Series
     Partitions for non-farm uses are prohibited in the Exclusive Farm Use Zone.

     1.   Farm Divisions:

          a. 40 Acre: There shall be a 40 acre minimum land division for farm parcels in
             the A-1(40) zone.

          b. 80 Acre: There shall be a 80 acre minimum land division for farm parcels in
             the A-1(160) zone to allow for land divisions around higher value per acre
                crops.    All proposed farm parcels at least 80 acres but less than 160 acres
                shall meet the following standards:

                (1) A farm management plan shail be submitted with the application. The
                   farm management plan shall also include an evaluation of the following:

                    (a) The property size shall be large enough to keep commercial farms and
                         ranches in the area successful and not contribute to their decline. This
                         evaluation shall include the potential negative impacts such as
                         increasing traffic on farm to market roads or adding practices or uses
                         that would conflict with existing accepted farming practices on adjacent
                         farms.

                   (b) Determine the nature of this type of commercial agricultural enterprise

Section 3.210 - "A-1° Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2008                                            f3004-        §367            any          8S
                                                                                                 Page 3.210-17

         in the county, or within the surrounding area.

(2) The proposed farm parcel or parcels have been planted in a higher value
   per acre crop adequate to meet the income requirement in (3) below;

(3) Income Test

   The     proposed     farm     parcel     or   parcels    are         each     capable     of producing
   $250,000 in gross annual income (2009 dollars adjusted for inflation at an
   annual rate of *2.375%) from the sale of farm products.

   Capability of producing the gross annual income described above shall be
   shown in one of two ways.

   (a) Documentation           of actual gross income                   received during the last two
         years or three of the last five years.

   (b) Documentation           that the current amount                   of acreage        planted on the
         proposed     farm     parcel   or parcels are each                capable of producing            the
         gross income described above. This documentation shall be prepared
         by a professional with the credentials to make such a determination
         such as a representative of the Oregon Department of Agriculture or
         Oregon State Extension Office. The documentation shall include the
         following:

         (i) Identify the type(s) and size(s) of viable farms that comprise this
            commercial         agricultural      enterprise        in    the     county,    or   within    the
            surrounding area            which      meet       or        exceed      the    gross     income
            described above.

         (ii) Identify soils, topography, land forms, slopes, solar access,
              irrigation, rainfall, sunlight of viable farms that comprise this type of
            commercial         enterprise        and   compare             those     to    the     proposed
            property.

         (iif)ls there an identified industry with infrastructure for this fype of
              commercial enterprise within the county or surrounding area? If so,
               how will this operation contribute to that enterprise? If not, will it be
              viable on its own?

   Approval of a request to divide agricultural land to the 80-acre minimum
   does not necessarily guarantee a farm dwelling. Any subsequent request
   for a farm dwelling will have to meet applicable standards set forth in
   Section D(5), Farm Dwelling above.

   *It is the intention of the Wasco      County Court to reevaluate the validity of this inflationary
   adjustment percentage by 2014.

                                                           Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                             July 22, 2009

                                                 (3009-0309                                 © 30 4 8%
Page 3.210-18

          c.    160 Acre:    There shall be a 160 acre minimum    land division for all parcels in
                the Exclusive Farm Use Zone that are not within the A-1(40) zone and cannot
                meet the 80 acre minimum test in b above.

     2.   Non-Farm Divisions (Part of Parcel)

          a.    Non-Farm Dwelling & Non-Farm Use Divisions

                (1) A one time division of land to create:

                   (a) Up to two new parcels no less than 2 acres in size and no greater than
                        20 acres in size, each to contain a dwelling not provided in conjunction
                       with farm use, only if the dwelling has been authorized in accordance
                       with Section E(5), Non-Farm Dwelling above; or

                   (b)A parcel to contain a nonfarm use, except dwellings, listed in Section
                      (E), Conditional Uses above, unless otherwise precluded by statute.
                       The parcel shall be the minimum size needed to accommodate               the
                       use in a manner consistent with other provisions of law;

                (2) The parcel(s) are divided from a lot or parcel that was !awfully created in
                   its current configuration prior to July 1, 2001.   This       date applies to
                   properties even if they were created after July 1, 2001       pursuant to this
                   section;

                (3) The parcel(s) are divided from a !ot or parcel that exceeds 160 acres and
                   which will continue to meet or exceed 160 acres after the division;

                (4) The parcel(s) are generally unsuitable for the production of farm crops
                    and livestock or merchantable tree species considering the terrain,
                    adverse soil or land conditions, drainage or flooding, vegetation, location
                    and size of the tract. A parcel may not be considered unsuitable based
                    solely on size or location if the parcel can reasonably be put to farm or
                    forest use in conjunction with other land; and

                (5) The parcels for the nonfarm      dwellings are not located in the “A-1(40)”
                    zone.

                (6) The non-farm parcels shall be disqualified       from   special   assessment
                    pursuant to Section J(1)(g) below.

                (7) The non-farm parcels do not have established water rights for irrigation.

          b. Park and Open Space Divisions: A land division for the purpose of allowing a
                provider of public parks or open space, or a not-for-profit land conservation
                organization, to purchase at least one of the resulting parcels subject to the
                following:

Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                           004        _ 0 Ye    7           oA a CR
                                                                                                  Page 3.210-19

             (1) A parcel created       by the land division that already contains a dwelling is
                large enough to support continued residential use of the parcel; and

             (2) A parcel     created    pursuant   to this subsection       that does       not contain          a
                 dwelling:

                (a) Is not eligible for siting a dwelling, except as may be authorized under
                    ORS      195.120;

                (b) May not be considered in approving or denying an application for siting
                    any other dwelling;

                (c) May not be considered in approving a redesignation or rezoning of
                    forestlands except for a redesignation or rezoning to allow a public
                    park, open space or other natural resource use; and

                (d) May      not be smaller than 25 acres unless the purpose                     of the land
                    division is:

                    (i) To facilitate the creation of a wildlife or pedestrian corridor or the
                        implementation of a wildlife habitat protection plan; or

                    (ii) To allow a transaction in which at least one party is a public park or
                         open space provider, or a_ not-for-profit land conservation
                         organization, that has cumulative ownership of at least 2,000 acres
                          of open space or park property.

H. Agricultural    Protection:     The    uses   listed   in Section   D,   Uses     Allowed      Subject      to
   Standards and E, Conditional Uses must meet the following standards:

   1.   Farm-Forest       Management      Easement:       The landowner is required to sign and
        record in the deed records for the county a document binding the landowner, and
        the landowner’s successors in interest, prohibiting them from pursuing a claim for
        relief or case of action alleging injury from farming or forest practices for which
        no action or claim is allowed under ORS 30.936 or 30.937.

   2.   Protection for Generally Accepted Farming and Forestry Practices - Complaint
        and Mediation Process: The landowner will receive a copy of this document.

   Challenging Soil Class Rating

   1. Lotof Record: For the purposes of approving a Lot of Record application under
      Section D(9) above, the soil class, soil rating or other soil designation of a
      specific lot or parcel may be changed if the property owner:

        a.   Submits a statement of agreement from the Natural Resources Conservation
             Service of the United States Department of Agriculture that the soil class, soil

                                                                  Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                                                                                      g
                                                                                                    July 22, 2009

                                                             J3004- 0367                           2398
Page 3.210-20

                rating or other soil designation should be adjusted based on new information,
                or

         b.     Submits the following:

                (1) Report from a soils scientist whose credentials are acceptable to the State
                    Department of Agriculture that the soil class, soil rating or other soil
                   designation should be changed; and

                (2) Statement     from the State       Department   of Agriculture that the Director of
                   Agriculture or the director's designee has reviewed the report described in
                   subparagraph (1) above of this section and finds the analysis in the report
                   to be soundly and scientifically based.

    2.   All Other: The soil class or soil rating or other soil designation of a specific lot or
         parcel on lands other than Lot of Record as specified above, or High Value soils
         as specified by NRCS, may be changed if the property owner:

         a.     Submits a report to the Wasco County Planning Department from an
                accredited soils scieritist, certified by ARCPACS that the soil class, soil rating
                or other soil designation should be changed and the rationale for the soil
                class change. The report will include the following technical data:

                (1) Copy of the most current National Cooperative Soil Survey map(s) for the
                   specified area;

                (2) Methods used by the Soil Scientist;

                (3) Level of order of survey used in field survey, scale, type of maps, number
                    of sample locations and observation points all confirming or disagreeing
                   with the NRCS mapping units;

                (4) Methods used for observations              (backhoe,    auger,    shovel,   etc.)   and
                    methods used for documentation;

                (5) Notation of any limitations encountered;

                (6) Results, findings and decisions;

                (7) Overview of geology, parent material, and related factors;

                (8) Description of landforms, topography, confirming relationship of landforms
                   to soil mapping units;

                (9) Description     of on-site   and     adjacent   hydrology,   including   surface    and
                   subsurface features;

                (10)Description of revised soil mapping units;

Se oon
Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                $3009 -beb7                     335-88
                                                                                                   Page 3.210-21

          b.   Acquires Wasco County Planning Department administrative approval of soils
               class change, in conjunction with land use application request.

J.   Additional Standards

     1.   Non-Farm Dwelling:

          a. The parcel is not within the A-1(40) Zone.

          b. There is no other dwelling on the parcel;

          c.   The     site shall   have   appropriate   physical   characteristics     such    as adequate
               drainage, proper sanitation and water facilities to accommodate a residence
               or other non-farm use;

          d.   Criteria for Farmland within the EFU Zone:

               The dwelling is situated upon a lot or parcel, or a portion of a lot or parcel,
               that is generally unsuitable land for the production of farm crops and
               livestock, considering the terrain, adverse soil or land conditions, drainage
               and flooding, vegetation, jocation and size of the tract. A lot or parcel shall
               not be considered unsuitable solely because of size or location if it can
               reasonably be put to farm or forest use in conjunction with other land.

               A lot or parcel is not "generally unsuitable" simply because it is too small to
                be farmed profitably by itself. If a iot or parcel can be sold, leased, rented or
                otherwise managed as a part of a commercial farm or ranch, it is not
                "generally unsuitable." A lot or parcel is presumed to be suitable if it is
                composed predominantly of Class | - VI soils. Just because a lot or parcel is
               unsuitable for one farm use does not mean             it is not suitable for another farm
               use.

               The term "generally unsuitable" is vague.  The following criteria define and
               specify in clear, objective, measurable means what is generally unsuitable
               land for agriculture in Wasco County.

               (1) On parcels less than 80 acres that were created prior to January 1, 1993,
                   and parcels created pursuant to the Non-Farm Division (Part of Parcel)
                   provisions when the entire parcel is found to be generaily unsuitable.
                   That is, over 50% of the parcel is a Class Vil or poorer soil as determined
                   by the NRCS Soil Survey for Wasco County, and (one) 1 of the criterion
                   listed in (3) below.

               (2) On parcels at least 80 acres but less than 160 acres that were created
                      prior to January 1, 1993, a portion of the parcel that is identified for the
                      dwelling site is a Class VII soil or poorer as determined by the NRCS Soil
                      Survey for Wasco County, and (one) 1 of the criterion listed in (3) below.

                                                                    Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                            SL3004 - D567                            3¢n
Page 3.210-22

                (3) Generally Unsuitable Criteria:

                   (a) predominantly greater than 40 % slope, or

                   (b) produces less than 25 bushels per acre wheat or cereal grains                crop,
                       or less than 1 ton per acre of alfalfa or other type of hay as per Farm
                       Service Agency (FSA) registered field crop information. Averages shall
                       be based on acres in production, or

                   (c) never been cropped according to the ASCS          (FSA) aerial photos and
                       records, and requires more than 5 acres per AUM based on the soil
                       productivity as shown in the most up to date soils survey or on a field
                       determination conducted by an authorized professional using Natural
                       Resource Conservation RCS standards.

          e.    Criteria for Forested land within the EFU zone

                (1) If the parcel is unsuitable for agricultural use and is under forest
                    assessment, the dwelling shall be situated upon generally unsuitable land
                    for the production of merchantable tree species recognized by the Forest
                   Practices Rules, considering the terrain, adverse soil or land conditions,
                   drainage and flooding, vegetation, location and size of the parcel. If a lot
                   or parcel is under forest assessment, the area is not "generally
                   unsuitable" simply because it is too small to be managed for forest
                   production profitably by itself. If a lot or parcel under forest assessment
                   can be sold, leased, rented or otherwise managed as a part of a forestry
                   operation, it is not "generally unsuitable".

                (2) If a lot or parcel is under forest assessment,   it is presumed       unsuitable if it
                   is composed        predominantly of soils capable of producing          less than 20
                   cubic feet of wood fiber per acre per year and may qualify for a dwelling if
                   it can be found that:

                   (a) The dwelling is compatible; and

                   (b) The dwelling does not seriously interfere with forest or farm uses on
                       surrounding land and it must not force a significant change in forest
                       practices or significantly increase the cost of those practices on the
                       surrounding land; and

          f.    Cumulative Impact: The dwelling will not materially alter the stability of the
                overall land use pattern of the area.     In determining whether a proposed
                nonfarm dwelling will alter the stability of the land use pattern in the area,
                consideration shall be given to the cumulative impact of nonfarm dwellings on

Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                             $3004        - De           7             BS a 9
                                                                                              Page 3.210-23

     other lots or parcels in the area similarly situated by applying the following
     standards:

     (1) Identify a study area for the cumulative impacts analysis. The study area
        shall include    at least 2000      acres     or a smaller area            not less than        1000
        acres, if the smaller area is a distinct agricultural area based on
        topography, soil types, land use pattern, or the type of farm or ranch
        operations or practices that distinguish it from other, adjacent agricultural
        areas. Findings shall describe the study area, its boundaries, the location
        of the subject parcel within this area, why the selected area is
        representative of the land use pattem surrounding the subject parcel and
        is adequate      to conduct the analysis             required      by this standard.        Lands
        zoned for rural residential or other urban or nonresource uses shall not be
        included in the study area;

     (2) Identify within the study area the broad types of farm uses (irrigated or
         nonirigated crops, pasture or grazing lands), the number, location and
        type of existing dwellings (farm, nonfarm, hardship, etc.), and the dwelling
        development trends since 1993. Determine the potential number of
        nonfarm/lot-of-record dwellings that could be approved under current
        regulations, including identification of predominant soil classifications, the
        parcels created     prior to January        1, 1993 and the parcels larger than the
        minimum lot size that may be divided to create new parcels for nonfarm
        dwellings. The findings shall describe the existing land use pattern of the
        study area including the distribution and arrangement of existing uses and
        the land use pattem that could result from approval of the possible
        nonfarm dwellings;

     (3) Determine      whether      approval    of    the     proposed           nonfarm/lot-of-record
        dwellings together with existing nonfarm dwellings will materially alter the
        stability of the land use pattern in the area. The stability of the land use
        pattern will be materially altered if the cumulative effect of existing and
        potential nonfarm dwellings will make it more difficult for the existing types
        of farms in the area to continue operation due to diminished opportunities
        to expand,      purchase     or lease   farmland,      acquire      water      rights or diminish
        the   number     of tracts    or   acreage     in farm       use     in    a   manner    that    will
        destabilize the overall character of the study area;

     (4) In addition to (1) - (3), if the application involves the creation of a new
         parcel for a nonfarm dwelling, consideration shall be given to whether
        creation of the parcel will lead to creation of other nonfarm parcels, to the
        detriment of agriculture in the area by applying (1) — (3) above.

g.   Disqualification of Special Assessment:
     The owner of the parcel shall provide evidence that:

                                                              Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                      $5009-0007                                        Boy9B :
Page 3.210-24

                1. The County Assessor has been notified that the proposed non-farm parcel
                   or parcel to contain the non-farm dwelling is no longer being used as
                     farmland; and

                2. A Request has been made in writing to the County Assessor to disqualify
                   the parcel from special assessment; and

                3.   Prior to receiving zoning approval on a building permit application or a
                     final   plat map,   the    non-farm   parcel   has   been   disqualified   from   special
                     assessment pursuant to ORS 215.236 and any additional tax imposed
                     upon disqualification from special assessment have been paid; and

                4.   Record on the Property Deed the following: This parcel (legal! description)
                     has been disqualified from special assessment and may not re-qualify for
                     special assessment unless, when combined with another contiguous lot or
                     parcel, it constitutes a qualifying parcel by meeting the minimum lot size
                     for commercial agriculture enterprises within the area.

    2.   Accessory Farm Dwelling:

         a. The accessory farm dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who will
            be principally engaged in the farm use of the land and whose seasonal or
            year-round assistance in the management of the farm use, such as planting,
            harvesting, marketing or caring for livestock, is or will be required by the farm
            operator. The applicant shall submit a Farm Management Plan to provide
            evidence of this;

         b.     The accessory farm dwelling will be located:

                (1) On the same lot or parcel as the dwelling of the primary farm dwelling; or

                (2) On the same tract as the primary farm dwelling when the lot or parcel on
                    which the accessory farm dwelling will be sited is consolidated into a
                     single parcel with all other contiguous lots and parcels in the tract; or

                (3) On a lot or parcel on which the primary farm dwelling is not located, when
                    the accessory farm dwelling is limited to only a manufactured dwelling and
                     a deed restriction is filed with the county clerk.          The deed restriction shall
                     require the manufactured dwelling to be removed when the lot or parcel is
                     conveyed to another party.        The manufactured dwelling may remain if it is
                     reapproved under      these   rules; or

                (4) On a lot or parcel on which the primary farm dwelling is not located, when
                    the accessory farm dwelling is limited to only attached multi-unit
                    residential structures allowed by the applicable state building code or
                    similar types of farm fabor housing as existing farm labor housing on the
                     ranch operation registered with the Dept. of Consumer & Business
                     Services, Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division under ORS

sy
Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                                    $3009- Coby                         3788
                                                                                                   Page 3.210-25

     658.750.          Accessory        farm     dwellings     approved           Section     H.     shall     be
     removed,      demolished         or converted          to a nonresidential         use        when      farm
     worker housing is no longer required; or

 (5) On a lot or parcel on which the primary farm dwelling is not located, when
     the accessory farm dwelling is located on a lot or parcel at least the size
     of the applicable minimum lot size under Section G(1) below, Farm
     Divisions and the lot or parcel complies                       with    the     gross     farm     income
     requirements in subsection d below..

. There is no other dwelling on the lands designated for exclusive farm use
  owned by the farm operator that is vacant or currently occupied by persons
  not working on the subject farm or ranch and that could reasonably be used
  as an accessory farm dwelling;

. In addition to the requirements in subsection a - c. of this section, the primary
 farm dwelling to which the proposed dwelling would be accessory satisfies
 the following;

  (1) The principal farm dwelling is located on a farm or ranch operation that is
     currently employed for farm use, as defined in Section 1.090 and ORS
     215.203, and produced in the last two years or three of the last five years,
     one (1) of the following:

     (a) On land not identified as high-value farmland at least *$55,000 (2009
         dollars adjusted for inflation at an annual rate of 2.375%) in gross
         annual income from the sale of farm products.

     (b) On     land     identified    as      high-value    farmland,      and      produced         at least
            (*$110,000     (2009      dollars    adjusted     for inflation at an annual                  rate of
            2.375%) in gross annual income

     and,

 (2) In determining the gross income, the cost of purchased livestock shall be
     deducted from the total gross income attributed to the tract.

. Wasco county shall not approve any proposed division of a lot or parcel for
  an accessory farm dwelling approved pursuant to this section.

  If it is determined that an accessory farm dwelling satisfies the requirements
 Section D(6) above, One Single Family Dwelling Customarily Provided in
 Conjunction with Farm Use, a parcel may be created consistent with the
 minimum parcel size requirements in Section G(1), Farm Divisions; and

  An accessory farm dwelling approved pursuant to this section cannot later be
  used   to satisfy the requirements              for a dwelling       not provided         in conjunction

                                                               Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                                 July 22, 2009

                                                       P004-lsey                                      Bry88
Page 3.210-26

                with farm     use   pursuant to Section        E(5), One     Single      Family       Dwelling   Not
                Provided in Conjunction with a Farm Use.

                *It is the intention of the Wasco   County Court to reevaluate the validity of this inflationary
                adjustment percentage by 2014.

     3.   Alteration,       restoration,   relocation    or   replacement      of   a_   lawfully      established
          dwelling:

          a.    Has intact interior walls and roof structure;

          b. Has indoor plumbing consisting of a kitchen sink, toilet, and bathing facilities
             connected to a sanitary waste disposal system;

          c.    Has interior wiring or interior lights;

          d. Has a heating system;

          e.    In the case of replacement, is removed, demolished or converted to a
                permitted nonresidential use within 90 days of completion of the replacement
                dwelling;

          f.    If the dwelling to be replaced is located on a portion of the lot or parcel not
                zoned for exclusive farm use, the applicant, as a condition of approval, shall
                execute and record in the deed records for the county where the property is
                located a deed restriction prohibiting the siting of a dwelling on that portion of
                the lot or parcel; and

          g.    Be subject to all applicable siting requirements.

     4.   Lot of Record Dwelling:

          a.    The lot or parcel on which the dwelling is to be sited was lawfully created prior
                to January 1, 1985 and was acquired and owned continuously by the present
                owner:

                (1) Since before January 1, 1985; or

                (2} By device or by intestate succession from a person who acquired and had
                    owned continuously the lot or parcel since before January 1, 1985.

          b. The tract upon which the dwelling is to be sited does not include another
             dwelling;

          c.    The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be sited was part of a tract on
                November 4, 1993, and no dwelling exists on another lot or parcel that was
                part of that tract;

Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                 009-            6367                3     Gn       88
                                                                                            Page 3.210-27

     d. The tract on which the dwelling is to be sited is not high value farmland as
        defined in Section 1.090, Definitions.

     e.   If the tract on which the dwelling is to be sited consists of more than one lot or
          parcel, all lots and parcels within the tract shall be consolidated into a single
          lot or parcel;

     f.   The director or the director's designee shall notify the county assessor of any
          decision to permit a lot of record dwelling;

     g. As used     in this zone, “owner”      includes the wife, husband,          son, daughter,
          mother,   father,   brother,   brother-in-law,   sister,      sister-in-law,      son-in-law,
          daughter-in-law,    mother-in-law,   father-in-law,   aunt,      uncle   niece,      nephew,
          stepparent, stepchild, grandparent or grandchild of the owner or a business
          entity owned by any one or a combination of these family members; and

     h. Land use approval for a lot of record dwelling may be transferred one time to
          any other person, prior to issuance of building permit.

5.   Farm Dwelling:

     a.   Large Lot: a dwelling may be considered customarily provided in conjunction
          with farm use subject to the following:

          (1) The land on which the dwelling to be sited is not identified as high-value
             farmland;

          (2) The parcel on which the dwelling will be tocated is at least 160 acres;

          (3) The subject tract is currently employed for farm use, as defined in Section
             1.090 and ORS 215.203 as evidenced by a Farm Management Plan

          (4) The dwelling will be occupied by an owner or a person or persons who will
              be principally engaged in the farm use of the land, such as planting,
              harvesting, marketing or caring for livestock, at a commercial scale. If the
              owner is not principally engaged in the day to day farm operation, no
              Accessory Farm Dwelling for farm help may be authorized pursuant to
             Section D(7) above; and

          (5) There is no other dwelling on the subject tract.

     b.   Income Test (for Parcels Less than        160 acres) subject to the following and
          Subsection 3 below:

          (1) Meets either (a) or (b) below:

                                                           Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                    /3007- 0269 Hy                                  9b
Page 3.210-28

                   (a) On    land   not identified       as high-value     farmland,       a dwelling   may   be
                      considered customarily provided in conjunction with farm use if the
                      subject tract is currently employed for farm use, as defined in Section
                      1.090 and ORS 215.203, as evidenced by a Farm Management Plan,
                      that produced at least at least *$55,000 (2009 dollars adjusted for
                       inflation at an annual rate of 2.375%) in gross annual income of from
                       the sale of farm products; or

                   (b) On_land_       identified   as     high-value     farmland,     a    dwelling    may   be
                       considered customarily provided in conjunction with farm use if the
                       subject tract is currently employed for the farm use, as defined in
                       Section 1.090 and ORS     215.203, as evidenced                            by a Farm
                       Management Plan, that produced at least *$110,000                         (2009 dollars
                       adjusted     for inflation at an      annual    rate of 2.375%)        in gross Annual
                       income from the sale of farm products in the last two or three of the
                       last five years; and

                (2) In determining the gross income required by this subsection:

                   (a) The cost of purchased livestock shall be deducted from the total gross
                       income attributed to the farm or ranch operation;

                   (b) Only gross income from land owned,                 not leased or rented, shall be
                       counted; and

                   (c) Gross farm income earned from a lot or parcel which has been used
                       previously to qualify another lot or parcel for the construction or siting
                       of a primary farm dwelling may not be used

                (3) There is no other dwelling on lands designated for exclusive farm use
                    pursuant to ORS Chapter 215 or for mixed farm/forest use pursuant to
                   OAR 660-006-057 owned                by the farm or ranch operator or on the farm or
                   ranch operation; and

                (4) The dwelling will be occupied by a person or persons who                     produced     the
                    commodities which grossed the income.

                (5) Prior to issuance of zoning approval on a building permit application, a
                    Notice of Decision shall be recorded in the deed records with the Wasco
                    County Clerk for each lot or parcel subject to the application for the
                    primary farm dwelling and shall preclude:

                   (a) All future rights to construct a dwelling except for accessory farm
                       dwellings, relative farm assistance dwellings, temporary hardship
                       dwellings or replacement dwellings allowed by ORS Chapter 215; and

                   (b) The use of any gross farm income eamed on the lots or parcels to
                       qualify another lot or parcel for a primary farm dwelling.

ae                                                             favorloey 4488
Section 3.210 - "A-1” Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                             Page 3.210-29

          (6) The covenants, conditions and restrictions are irrevocable,                      unless        a
              statement of release is signed by the Wasco County Judge;

          (7) Enforcement     of    the   covenants,   conditions     and     restrictions      may     be
               undertaken by the Dept. of Land Conservation & Development or Wasco
               County;

          (8) The Planning Director shall maintain a copy of the Notice of Decisions
              filed in the County deed records pursuant to this section and a map or
              other record depicting the lots and parcels subject to the covenants,
              conditions and restrictions fited in the County deed records pursuant to
               this section. The map or other record shall be readily available to the
               public in the Planning Office.

6.   Winery:

     a.   The winery is a facility that produces wine with a maximum              annual production
          of:

          (1) Less than 50,000 gallons and it:

               (a) Owns an on-site vineyard of at least 15 acres;

               (b) Owns a contiguous vineyard of at least 15 acres;

               (c) Has a fong-term contract for the purchase of ail of the grapes from at
                   least 15 acres of a vineyard contiguous to the winery; or

               (d) Obtains grapes from any combination of subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of
                  this paragraph; or

          (2) At least 50,000 gallons and no more than 100,000 galions and that:

               (a) Owns an on-site vineyard of at least 40 acres;

               (b) Owns a contiguous vineyard of at least 40 acres;

               (c) Has a long-term contract for the purchase of all of the grapes from at
                   least 40 acres of a vineyard contiguous to the winery; or

               (d) Obtains grapes from any combination of subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of
                  this paragraph.

     b. The winery described in subsection (a){1} or (2) above shall allow only the
        sale of:

          (1) Wines produced in conjunction with the winery; and

                                                            Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                              July 22, 2009

                                                       fj} 00;-bae7 AZRS
Page 3.210-30

                (2) Items directly related to wine, the sales of which                                       are incidental to retail
                       sale      of        wine       on-site.       Such      items         include         individually    portioned
                       prepackaged foods prepared from an approved source by a commercial
                       processor and nonperishable beverages or any items additionally allowed
                       by a limited service restaurant defined in ORS 624.010.

          c.    Prior to the               issuance         of zoning       approval     to establish          a winery     under this
                section, the applicant shall show that vineyards, described in subsection
                (aX(1) and (2) of this section, have been planted or that the contract has been
                executed, as applicable.

          d.    Siting Standards to limit conflicts with accepted farming or forest practices on
                adjacent lands include:

                (1) Establishment of a setback, not to exceed 100 feet, from all property lines
                   for the winery and all public gathering places; and                                                                ;

                (2) Provision of direct road access, intemal circulation and parking.

          e.    If a     Home              Occupation          to   host     Commercial             Events     such    as   weddings,
                receptions or parties is desired, that use must be applied for under Section
                E(28). Failure to apply under Section E(28) for such a use will result in the
                hosting of any such events to be considered a land use violation.

     7.   Farm Ranch Recreation:

          a. The         tract        or     parcel         is currently     employed          in    a commercial           agricultural
                operation as defined in Section                            1.090 and ORS            215.203      as evidenced        by a
                Farm Management Plan.

                If the Farm                Ranch      Recreation        utilizes agricultural operations on a tract to
                meet the commercial agricultural operation standards they will be required to
                own and operate the tract.      If portions of the tract used to justify the
                commercial                 agricultural        operation      are     sold    the      Farm      Ranch      Recreation
                approval will automatically become void and the owner will cease to operate
                within 60 days of selling the property.

          b. The Farm Management                              Plan shall also include the Farm Ranch Recreation
                proposal         including            the     number       of acres     devoted         to the     recreational      use,
                proposed or existing buildings involved in the use, hours and days of operation,
                and anticipated usage (number of visitors).           Additionally, it must be
                demonstrated                 how    the      Farm    Recreation        activities      are     compatible     with    the
                commercial farming operation.

          c. The Farm Ranch Recreation proposal shall not be the primary use of the
             tract, but shall be subordinate to the commercial agricultural operation in
                scope,        scale and            impact,      however,       income        generated        from the farm       ranch

Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                                          J}009-                dse7              43 ay        4
                                                                                          Page 3.210-31

  recreation use does not have to be subordinate to income generated by the
 commercial agricultural operation. Scope, scale and impact shall take into
 consideration the number of acres/area devoted to the farm ranch recreation
 use, anticipated usage of the use, days and hours of operation.

. New   Farm    Ranch      Recreation       structures     shall    be   located    on   land    that     is
  "generally   unsuitable"        as defined    in Section         J(1)(d),   Non-Farm      Dwelling,
 where practicable.   If the proposal is to not locate Farm Ranch Recreation
 structures on land that is “generally unsuitable’, the application shall explain
 why and how the proposal best protects agricultural lands.

. Recreational uses such as fly fishing and hunting off of the parcel or tract
  shall be allowed.     However, the primary portion of the Farm Ranch
  Recreation use, excluding lodging, shall occur on the parcel or tract.

  Overnight    lodging    units    in new    or existing     structures       may   be   permitted        in
 conjunction with the Farm Ranch Recreation operation. Lodging unit means
 an individual guest room in a lodge, bunkhouse, cottage, cabin, tent or
  licensed recreational vehicles used only for transient lodging and not for a
  permanent residence.     No more than 10 lodging units are allowed.       No
 kitchen facilities are permitted in individual lodging units. All overnight
 facilities shall comply with Oregon Dept. of Environmental Quality and/or
 Wasco County Health Dept. requirements for sanitary sewage disposal.

. In addition to overnight lodging units a separate kitchen area, rest rooms,
  storage or other shared indoor space shall be allowed.

. Food services shall be incidental to the operation of the guest ranch and shall
  be provided only for the guests of the farm ranch recreation, individuals
  accompanying the guests and individuals attending a special event at the
  farm ranch recreation site. The cost of meals, if any, provided to guests of the
  farm ranch recreation, individuals accompanying the guests and individuals
  attending a special event at the farm ranch recreation may be included in the
 fee to visit or stay at the farm ranch recreation site. A farm ranch recreation
 may not sell individual meals to an individual who is not a guest of the farm
 ranch recreation, an individual accompanying a guest or an_ individual
 attending a special event at the farm ranch recreation site. Kitchen facilities
  associated with the farm ranch recreation shall comply with Oregon                            Dept. of
  Environmental Quality and/or Wasco County Health Dept. requirements.

. The Approving Authority shall place reasonable no-shooting buffers (setbacks
  from property lines) for hunting preserves, with the ability to have a minimum
  one foot (1’) buffer.

  There shall be a two mile radius for public notification in the application of
  public or private target or shooting courses. There shall be a one-half mile
  radius for public notification in the application of a hunting preserve.

                                                           Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                            July 22, 2009

                                                         pAb07- F207                             YY 98
Page 3.210-32

     8.   Utility Facility:

          a. A      utility facility is necessary for public service if the facility must be sited in an
                 exclusive farm use zone in order to provide the service. To demonstrate that
                 a   utility   facility   is   necessary,   an   applicant    must   show   that   reasonable
                 alternatives have been considered and that the facility must be sited in an
                 exclusive farm use zone due to one or more of the following factors:

                 (1) Technical and engineering feasibility;

                 (2) The proposed facility is locationally dependent.         A utility facility is
                     locationally dependent if it must cross land in one or more areas zoned for
                     exclusive farm use in order to achieve a reasonably direct route or to meet
                     unique geographical needs that cannot be satisfied on other lands;

                 (3) Lack of available urban and nonresource lands;

                 (4) Availability of existing rights of way;

                 (5) Public health and safety; and

                 (6) Other requirements of state and federal agencies.

          b. Costs associated with any of the factors listed in a. may be considered, but
             cost alone may not be the only consideration in determining that a utility
             facility is necessary for public service. Land costs shall not be included when
             considering alternative locations for substantially similar utility facilities and
             the siting of utility facilities that are not substantially similar.

          c.     The owner of a utility facility approved under this section shall be responsible
                 for restoring, as nearly as possible, to its former condition any agricultural
                 land and associated improvements that are damaged or otherwise disturbed
                 by the siting, maintenance, repair or reconstruction of the facility. Nothing in
                 this subsection shali prevent the owner of the utility facility from requiring a
                 bond or other security from a contractor                    or otherwise   imposing    on   a
                 contractor the responsibility for restoration.

          d.     The goveming body of the County or its designee shall impose clear and
                 objective conditions on an application for utility facility siting to mitigate and
                 minimize the impacts of the proposed facility, if any, on surrounding lands
                 devoted to farm use in order to prevent a significant change in accepted farm
                 practices or a significant increase in the cost of farm practices on surrounding
                 farm lands.

          e.     In addition to a. through d. of this section, the establishment or extension of a
                 sewer system as defined by OAR 660-011-0060(1){f) in an exclusive farm
                 use zone shall be subject to the provisions of OAR 660-011-0060.

Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                      £2009-t2e7                      Yso88
                                                                                                 Page 3.210-33

     f.   The provisions of a. through d. do not apply to interstate natural gas pipelines
          and associated facilities authorized by an subject to regulation by the Federal
          Energy Regulatory Commission.

9.   Aggregate

     a. A land use permit is not required for mining less then than 1,000 cubic yards
        of material or excavation preparatory to mining of a surface area of less than
        one acre.

     b.   A land use permit for mining of aggregate shall be issued only for a site
          included on an inventory in an acknowledged comprehensive plan.

     c.   “Mining” includes ail or any part of the process of mining by the removal of
          overburden and the extraction of natural mineral deposits thereby exposed by
          any method including open-pit mining operations, auger mining operations,
          processing, surface impacts of underground mining, production of surface
          mining refuse and the construction of adjacent or off-site borrow pits except
          those constructed for use as access roads.

     d. “Mining” does not include excavations of sand, gravel, clay, rock or other
        similar materials conducted by a landowner or tenant on the landowner or
        tenant's property for the primary purpose of reconstruction or maintenance of
        access roads and excavation or grading operations conducted in the process
        of farming or cemetery operations, on-site road construction or other on-site
        construction or nonsurface impacts of underground mines.

10. Composting facilities:

     a.   Composting operations and facilities allowed on land not defined as high-
          value farmland shall be limited to the composting operations and facilities
          allowed    by OAR       660-033-0130(29)(a)          or that require       a permit        from   the
          Department of Environmental Quality under OAR 340-093-0050. Buildings
          and facilities used in conjunction with the composting operation shall only be
          those required for the operation of the subject facility. Onsite sales shall be
          limited to bulk loads of at least one unit (7.5 cubic yards) in size that are
          transported in one vehicle.

     b. Composting        operations       and   facilities allowed    on    high-value      farmland       are
          limited   to those    that     are   exempt   from   a permit     from     the   Department         of
          Environmental        Quality     (DEQ)    under      OAR    340-093-0050,           only     require
          approval of an Agricultural Compost Management Pian by the Oregon
          Department of Agriculture, or require a permit from the DEQ under OAR 340-
          093-0050 where the compost is applied primarily on the subject farm or used
          to manage and dispose of by-products generated on the subject farm.
          Excess compost may be sold to neighboring farm operations in the local area
          and shall be limited to bulk loads of at least one unit (7.5 cubic yards) in size.
          Buildings and facilities used in conjunction with the composting operation

                                                                 Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                                   July 22, 2009

                                                               PROOF B67 Ut 8
Page 3.210-34

                shall only be those required for the operation of the subject facility.

     11.Land application of reclaimed           water,   agricultural   process   or industrial process
        water or biosolids.

          a. A determination by the Department of Environmental Quality, in conjunction
                with the department's review of a license, permit or approval, that the
                application rates and site management practices for the land application of
                reclaimed water, agricultural or industrial process water or biosolids ensure
                continued agricultural, horticultural or silvicultural production and do not
                reduce the productivity of the tract.

          b. The use of a tract of land on which the land application of reclaimed water,
                agricultural or industrial process water or biosolids has occurred            under this
                section may not be changed to allow a different use unless:

                (1) The tract is included within an acknowledged urban growth boundary;

                (2) The tract is rezoned to a zone other than an exclusive farm use zone;

                (3) The different use of the tract is a farm use as defined in ORS 215.203; or

                (4) The different use of the tract is a use allowed under:

                   (a) ORS 215.213 (1}(c), (e) to (g), (kK), (m) to (q), (Ss) to (u), (x), (Z) or (aa);

                   (b) ORS 215.213 (2)(a) to (c), (i), (m) or (p) to (r);

                   (c) ORS 215.283 (1}(c), (e), (f), (k) to (0), (q) to (s), (u), (w) or (x); or

                   (d) ORS 215.283 (2)(a), (j), (L) or (p) to (s).

          ec. An evaluation of the alternatives to application and the reason for not using
                these alternatives.

          d.    The uses allowed under this section include:

                (1) The treatment of reclaimed water, agricultural or industrial process water
                    or biosolids that occurs as a result of the !and application;

                (2) The establishment and use of facilities, including buildings, equipment,
                   aerated and nonaerated water impoundments,              pumps and other irrigation
                   equipment, that are accessory to and reasonably necessary for the land
                   application to occur on the subject tract;

                (3) The establishment and use of facilities, including buildings and
                    equipment, that are not on the tract on which the land application occurs
                    for the transport of reclaimed water, agricultural or industrial process water

Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                      p ‘A009 ~ODd6 2              Y 79       98
                                                                                          Page 3.210-35

             or biosolids to the tract on which the land application occurs if the facilities
             are located within:

             (a) A public right of way; or

             (b) Other land if the landowner provides written consent and the owner of
                 the facility complies with ORS 215.275 (4); and

          (4) The transport by vehicle of reclaimed water or agricultural or industria!
              process water to a tract on which the water will be applied to land.

   e.     Uses not allowed under this section include:

          (1) The establishment and use of facilities, including buildings or equipment,
             for the treatment     of reclaimed   water,   agricultural    or industrial      process
             water or biosolids other than those treatment facilities related                   to the
             treatment that occurs as a result of the land application; or

          (2) The establishment and use of utility facility service lines allowed under
             B(10) above.

        f. A division of land for the land application of reclaimed water, agricultural or
          industrial process water or biosolids shall not be allowed.

12.Farm stands:

   a. The structures are designed and used for sale of farm crops or livestock
      grown on the farm operation, or grown on the farm operation and other farm
          operations in the local agricultural area, including the sale of retail incidental
          items, and fee-based activity to promote the sale of farm crops or livestock
          sold at the farm stand, if the annual sales of the incidental items and fees
          from promotional activity do not make      up more than 25 percent of the total
          annual sales of the farm stand;

   b.     The farm stand does not include structures designed for occupancy as a
          residence or for activity other than the sale of farm crops and livestock and
          does not include structures for banquets, public gatherings or public
          entertainment;

   c.     "Farm crops or livestock" includes both fresh and processed farm crops and
          livestock grown on the farm operation, or grown on the farm operation and
          other farm      operations   in the local agricultural area. As             used in this
          subsection,     “processed   crops and livestock" includes jams,           syrups, apple
          cider, animal    products and other similar farm crops and          livestock that have
          been processed and converted        into another product but not prepared food
          items; and

                                                           Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                            3007-0367 yg rE
Page 3.210-36

         d.     "Local   agricultural      area"     includes    Oregon        or    an      adjacent   county    in
                Washington.

    13. Golf Courses

         a.     A regulation 18 hole golf course is generally characterized by a site of about
                120 to 150 acres of land, has a playable distance of 5,000 to 7,200 yards,
                and a par of 64 to 73 strokes;

         b. A regulation 9 hole golf course is generally characterized by a site of about
                65 to 90 acres of land, has a playable distance of 2,500 to 3,600 yards, and a
                par of 32 to 36 strokes;

         c.     Non-regulation golf courses are not allowed uses within these areas. "Non-
                regulation golf course" means a golf course or golf course-like development
                that does not meet the definition of golf course in Section 1.090, including but
                not limited to executive golf courses, Par 3 golf courses, pitch and putt golf
                courses, miniature golf courses and driving ranges;

         d. Accessory uses provided as part of a golf course shall be consistent with the
            following standards:

                (1)An accessory use to a golf course is a facility or improvement that is
                   incidental to the operation of the golf course and is either necessary for
                   the operation and maintenance of the golf course or that provides goods
                   or services customarily provided to golfers at a golf course. An accessory
                   use   or activity does          not   serve   the   needs        of the    non-golfing   public.
                   Accessory uses to a golf course may include: Parking; maintenance
                   buildings; cart storage and repair; practice range or driving range;
                   clubhouse;      restrooms; lockers and showers; food and beverage service;
                   pro shop; a practice or beginners course as part of an 18 hole or larger
                   golf course; or golf tournament. Accessory uses to a golf course do not
                   include: Sporting facilities unrelated to golfing such as tennis courts,
                   swimming pools, and weight rooms; wholesale or retail operations
                   oriented to the non-golfing public; or housing.

                (2) Accessory uses shall be limited in size and orientation on the site to serve
                    the needs of persons and their guests who patronize the golf course to
                   golf. An accessory use that provides commercial services (e.g., pro shop,
                   etc.) shall be located in the clubhouse rather than in separate buildings.

                (3) Accessory uses may include one or more food and beverage service
                    facilities in addition to food and beverage service facilities located in a
                    clubhouse. Food and beverage service facilities must be part of and
                   incidental to the operation of the golf course and must be limited in size
                   and orientation on the site to serve only the needs of persons who
                   patronize the golf course and their guests. Accessory food and beverage
                   service facilities shall not be designed for or include structures for

soni
Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                                  fre01-toeg Vine#
                                                                                     Page 3.210-37

           banquets, public gatherings or public entertainment.

14. Private Parks, Playgrounds and Campgrounds

   a.   The campground     is established on a site or is contiguous to lands with a park
        or other outdoor natural amenity that is accessible for recreational use by the
        occupants of the campground.

   b.   Except on a lot or parcel contiguous to a lake or reservoir, private
        campgrounds shall not be allowed within three miles of an urban growth
        boundary unless an exception is approved pursuant to ORS 197.732 and
        OAR chapter 660, division 4.

   c. A campground shall be designed and integrated into the rural agricultural and
      forest environment in a manner that protects the natural amenities of the site
        and provides buffers of existing native trees and vegetation or other natural
        features between campsites.

   d.   Campgrounds shall not include intensively developed recreational uses such
        as swimming pools, tennis courts, retail stores or gas stations.

   e.   Campsites may be occupied by a tent, travel trailer, yurt or recreational
        vehicle. Separate sewer, water or electric service hook-ups shall not be
        provided to individual camp sites except that electrical             service    may     be
        provided to yurts allowed for by subsection f below.

   f.   No more than one-third or     a maximum of 10 campsites, whichever is smaller,
        may include a yurt.    The yurt shall be located on the ground or on a wood
        floor with no permanent foundation.

        As used in this paragraph, “yurt’ means a round, domed shelter of cloth or
        canvas on a collapsible frame with no plumbing, sewage disposal hookup or
        internal cooking appliance.

15. On Site Filming

   a.   No filming shall occur without written permission of the landowner.

   b.   Filming may be restricted during the hours between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. if
        nearby residents would be disturbed by noise, lights or any other filming
        activity.

   c.   Filming shall not create traffic hazards.

   d. Prior to filming, written authorization shall be obtained from the applicable fire
      department for the use of any fire-related activities, such as welding or cutting
        equipment, pyrotechnical devices or related activities.

                                                      Section 3.210 - "A-1” Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                    [iptoi-loty op % 88
Page 3.210-38

          e. All federal,       state    and     county     aircraft     regulations       shall    apply.      It is the
                responsibility of the applicant to be aware of all regulations.

          f.    All structures shall be self-supporting.                Digging or construction of permanent
                foundations will not be allowed.

          g.    Weekly    garbage       pickup      shali   be    provided       and   any         garbage     or     debris
                gathered daily.

          h. Ail garbage, debris, sets, or other equipment or props must be removed and
             properly disposed of within 24 hours of completion of filming.

          i.    All food concessions shall obtain a permit from the Wasco                              County Health
                Department.

          j-    It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide proper sanitation, potable
                water, off-road parking, and security.

          k.    No mammals, fish, reptiles, or other animals                       shall be         released        into the
                environment during or after filming.

          I.    All animals shall be            tethered,    leashed       or caged        when      not     immediately
                required for filming.

     16. Commercial Activities in Conjunction with Farm Use - The processing, packaging,
         treatment and wholesale distribution and storage of a product primarily derived
         from farm activities on the premises. Also, retail sales of agricultural products,
         supplies and services directly related to the production and harvesting of
          agricultural products.        Such uses include the following:

          -Storage, distribution and sale of feed,                     fertilizer, seed,     chemicals,        and     other
          products used for commercial agriculture.

          -Famm product receiving plants, including processing, packaging, and reshipment
          facilities.(revised 2-89)

          -Livestock feed or sales yards.

          -Storage, repair, or sale of fencing, irrigation, pipe, pumps, and other commercial
          farm-related equipment and implements.

          -Farm equipment storage and repair facilities.

          -Bulk storage and distribution facilities for fuels, pesticides, and fertilizers.

          -Veterinanian clinic.

Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                      $3004-0047                                C7}          4
                                                                                                     Page 3.210-39

  -Horticultural specialties such as nurseries or greenhouses for retail sales of plants
  and products.

  -Slaughtering of animals, including attendant retail and wholesale                               sales, which
  may be conducted outside an enclosed building.

  -Wineries for production from fruits,                 a portion of which are grown on the property,
  including retail sales.

  -And other such uses which may be construed as similar to the above listed uses.

  The    Approving       Authority       shail    consider among         other relevant      criteria the     Land
   Conservation and Development Commission decision No. 79-003.

17.Wind Power Generation Facility: For purposes of this section a wind power
   generation facility includes, but is not limited to, the following system
  components:           all      wind      turbine     towers      and     concrete        pads,     permanent
  meteorological towers and wind measurement devices, electrical cable collection
  systems connecting wind turbine towers with the relevant power substation, new
  or expanded          private     roads     (whether        temporary     or permanent)       constructed       to
  serve the wind power generation facility, office and operation and maintenance
  buildings, temporary lay-down areas and all other necessary appurtenances.

  a.    For high-value farmland soils described in ORS 195.300(10), it must be found
        that all of the following are satisfied:

        (1) Reasonable alternatives have been considered                          to show that siting the
            wind power generation facility or component                            thereof on high-value
            farmland soils is necessary for the facility or                       component to function
            properly or if a road system or turbine string must                   be placed on such soils
           to achieve a reasonably direct route considering the following factors:

            (a) Technical and engineering feasibility;

           (b) Availability of existing rights of way; and

           (c) The        long      term         environmental,      economic,        social       and      energy
               consequences of siting the facility or component on alternative sites,
               as determined under paragraph (2) of this subsection.

        (2) The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences
           resulting      from     the     wind      power    generation     facility or    any    components
           thereof at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce adverse
           impacts are not significantly more adverse than would typically result from
           the same proposal being located on other agricultural lands that do not
           include high-value farmland soils.

                                                                     Section 3.210 - “A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone

                                                                D009 On07 G> y&E
Page 3.210-40

                (3) Costs associated with any of the factors listed in paragraph (1) of this
                      subsection may be considered, but costs alone may not be the only
                      consideration in determining that siting any component of a wind power
                      generation facility on high-value farmland soils is necessary.

                (4) The owner of a wind power generation facility approved under Section (a)
                    above shall be responsible for restoring, as nearly as possible, to its
                    former condition any agricultural land and associated improvements that
                      are damaged or otherwise disturbed by the siting, maintenance, repair or
                      reconstruction of the facility. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the
                      owner of the facility from requiring a bond or other security from a
                      contractor or otherwise imposing on a contractor the responsibility for
                      restoration.

                (5) The criteria in Section (b), below are satisfied.

          b.    For arable lands, meaning lands that are cultivated or suitable for cultivation,
                including high-value farmland soils described in ORS 195.300(10), it must be
                found that:

                (1)    The proposed wind power facility will not create unnecessary negative
                      impacts on agricultural operations conducted on the subject property.
                      Negative impacts could include, but are not limited to, the unnecessary
                      construction of roads, dividing a field or multiple fields in such a way that
                      creates smail or isolated pieces of property that are more difficult to farm,
                      and placing wind farm components such as meteorological towers on
                      lands in a manner that could disrupt common and accepted farming
                      practices; and

                (2) The     presence     of     a   proposed   wind    power   facility   will   not   result   in
                      unnecessary soil erosion or toss that could limit agricultural productivity on
                      the subject property. This provision may be satisfied by the submittal and
                      county approval of a soil and erosion control plan prepared by an
                      adequately qualified individual, showing how unnecessary soil erosion will
                      be avoided or remedied and how topsoil will be stripped, stockpiled and
                      clearly marked. The approved plan shall be attached to the decision as a
                      condition of approval; and

                (3) Construction or maintenance activities will not result in unnecessary soil
                    compaction that reduces the productivity of soil for crop production. This
                    provision may be satisfied by the submittal and county approval of a plan
                      prepared by an adequately qualified individual, showing how unnecessary
                      soil compaction will be avoided or remedied in a timely manner through
                      deep soil decompaction or other appropriate practices. The approved plan
                      shail be attached to the decision as a condition of approval; and

                (4) Construction or maintenance activities will not result in the unabated
                    introduction or spread of noxious weeds and other undesirable weeds

Section 3.210 - "A-1" Exclusive Farm Use Zone
July 22, 2009                                                         $009-0967                    53488
                                                                                             Page 3.210-41

          species. This provision may be satisfied by the submittal and county
          approval of a weed control plan prepared by an adequately qualified
          individual that includes a long-term maintenance     agreement.  The
          approved      plan    shall    be     attached   to the   decision     as    a condition        of
          approval.

c.   For nonarable       lands,       meaning     lands that are not suitable for cultivation,               it
     must be found that the requirements of Subsection (b\4) above are satisfied.

d.   In   the   event    that     a   wind    power    generation     facility   is   proposed       on      a
     combination of arable and nonarable lands as described in Sections (6) and
     (c) above, the approval criteria of Section (b) shall apply to the entire project.

                                                               Section 3.210 - "A-1” Exclusive Farm Use Zone
                                                                                                July 22, 2009

                                                     f3009-boey                         SY¥3E
                      DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                  CHAPTER 4 SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

SECTION   TITLE                                                   PAGE
4.010     AUTHORIZATION OF SIMILAR USES                           41
4.020     EXCEPTIONS                                              4-1
4.030     IMPACT REVIEW                                           4-1
4.040     EXEMPTIONS                                              “4
4.050     MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE                               4-2
4.060     GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO YARD REQUIREMENTS                 4-2
4.070     GENERAL EXCEPTIONS TO BUILDING HEIGHT                   4-2
          REQUIREMENTS
4.080     PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS                                  4-2
4.090     VISION CLEARANCE                                        4-3
4.100     FENCES                                                  4-3
4.110     THROUGH LOTS                                            4-3
4. 120    EXTERIOR FINISHING OF MOBILE HOMES                      4-4
4.130     DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR GUESTHOUSES                   4-4

                                            Chapter 4 - Supplemental Provisions

                                (R009-loL 7 65 B
(004-0307   SL 488
                                                                                                     Page 4-1

                           CHAPTER 4         SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

 SECTION 4.010 Authorization of Similar Uses
 The Director may permit in a particular zone a use not listed in this Ordinance, provided
 the use is of the same general type as the uses permitted there by this Ordinance.                     The
 decision of the Director may be reviewed by the Planning Commission on its own motion
 or appealed to the Commission             pursuant to Section 2.060 (C10) of this Ordinance.
 Notice of Administrative Action shall be given as prescribed by Section 2.080(A) of this
 ordinance. Notice of a final decision shall be given as prescribed in Section 2.120(A) and
 (B).

 SECTION 4.020 Exceptions
 The Director of Planning shall be authorized to grant exceptions to the provisions of this
 Ordinance to any goverment agency that requests in writing an exception toa specific
 requirement or procedure; provided that the following circumstances exist:

- A. The proposed use is consistent with the purpose and intent of the Comprehensive
     Pian and the Land Use and Development Ordinance; and,

 B. The proposed use would serve an immediate public need; and,

 C. There is inadequate time available for a review of the use through normal procedures,
        and delays would impair project implementation or pose hazards to property or public
        health, safety or welfare.

 SECTION 4.030         Impact Review
 To     ensure   that adequate       information   is available to determine    potential conflicts or
 detrimental effects, the Director of Planning may require the submission of an impact
 assessment, upon forms prescribed by the Director, before an exception shall be granted.

 SECTION 4.040 Exemptions
 Nothing in this Ordinance shail be deemed to apply to the construction, reconstruction, or
 alteration by a goverment agency of road or highway systems, or to the use of materials
 or sources within rights-of-way. In addition, maintenance rehabilitation, repair and minor
 betterment activities, not considered to have land use impacts, by a govermmental agency
 on public property or facilities, shall also be exempt from the provisions of this Ordinance.
  Public works projects or land uses, authorized or approved by the County Court and
 determined by the Director to be consistent with the long-term objectives of the
 Comprehensive Pian, shall be exempt from the current provisions of this Ordinance.

                                                                         Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                                July 22, 2009

                                                          P3064-D54 79 SDSS
Page 4-2

SECTION 4.050 Maintenance of Open Space
No lot area, yard, or other open space existing on or after the effective date of this
Ordinance shall be reduced below the minimum required for it by this Ordinance, and no
lot area, yard, off-street parking and loading area or other open space which is required
by this Ordinance for one use shall be used as the required lot area, yard or other open
space for another use. This section does not apply to area requirements reduced below
the minimum as a result of the creation of cemetery lots. Any required yard shall not
include any land dedicated, reserved or set aside for road, highway, street or other public
purposes except as provided in this Ordinance.

SECTION 4.060          General Exceptions to Yard Requirements
The following exception to yard requirements is authorized for a lot in any zone:

If there are buildings on both abutting lots which are within one hundred (100) feet of the
intervening lot, and the buildings have front yards of less than the required depth for the
zone, the depth of the front yard for the intervening lot need not exceed the average
depth of the front yards of the abutting yards.

SECTION 4.070          General Exceptions to Building Height Requirements
Necessary       roof structures housing elevators, stairways, tanks, fans and ventilators and
towers, steeples, flagpoles, smokestacks, silos, grain elevators, energy facilities and
commercial energy facilities, water tanks and skylights and fire or parapet walls may be
erected above the height limits of the zone in which they are located provided no usable
floor space is provided in such structures above the required height limits. Transmission
towers over 200 feet in height require a Conditional Use Permit.

SECTION 4.080 Projections Into Yards
Every part of a required yard shall be open from the ground to the sky unobstructed
except for the following:

A. Accessory buildings where permitted.

B. Ordinary building projections such as comices, eaves, belt courses, sills or similar
   architectural features may project into required side yards not more than eighteen (18)
   inches or into front and rear yards not more than twenty-four (24) inches.

C. Chimneys may project into any required yard not more than eighteen (18) inches.

D. Uncovered baiconies or fire escapes may project into any required yard not more than
   three (3) feet.

Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
July 22, 2009
                                                    3009 “OL 7                      SVRSY
                                                                                                              Page 4-3

E.   Uncovered terraces, decks or platforms may project or extend into a required setback
     not more than five (5) feet.        Such terraces, decks or platforms including guardrails or
     fencing shall not extend thirty (30) inches above grade or ground level.

SECTION 4.090        Vision Clearance
A vision     clearance   area   shall     be maintained        on     the comers           of all property at the
intersection of two streets or a street and a railroad.

A. A vision clearance area shall consist of a triangular area, two sides of which are lot
     lines   measured    from   the     comer   intersection        of the   street   lot lines for a distance
     specified in the appropriate zone, or, where the lot lines have rounded comers, the lot
     lines extended in a straight line to a point of intersection and so measured, and the
     third side of which is a line across the comer of the lot joining the non-intersecting
     ends of the other two sides.

B. A vision clearance area shall contain no planting, fence, wall, structure, or temporary
     Or permanent obstruction exceeding two and one-half (2 1/2) feet in height, measured
     from the top of the curb or, where no curb exists, from the established street center
     line grade, except that trees exceeding this height may                          be     located   in this area
     removed to a height of eight (8) feet above the grade.

C. The following measurements shall establish vision areas:

     1.   In an agricultural or residential zone, the minimum distance shall be thirty (30) feet,
          or, at intersections including an alley, ten (10) feet.

     2.   In all other zones where yards are required, the minimum distance shall be fifteen
          (15) feet or, at intersections including alley, ten (10) feet, except that when the
          angle of intersection between streets, other than an alley, is less than thirty (30)
          degrees, the distance shall be twenty-five (25) feet.

SECTION 4.100         Fences
No fence shall exceed six (6) feet in height or two and one-half (2 1/2) feet in a vision
clearance area. Game fences designed to protect agricultural crops from game animals
shall be included in the definition of fence (protective), however, they are exempt from the
height limit.

SECTION 4.110        Through Lots

A. On through lots one hundred fifty (150) feet or less in depth, the height of a building
     may be that permitted on either street on which the lot faces.

                                                                                  Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                                         July 22, 2009

                                                        306 GO2C7D                                     5G
Page 4-4

B. On through lots more than one hundred fifty (150) feet in depth, the height regulations
    for the greater height shall not extend more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from that
    street.

C. Through lots having a frontage on two streets shall provide the required front yard on
   each street.

SECTION 4.120          Exterior Finishing of Mobile Homes

A. All mobile homes located on any lot or parcel in Wasco County shail be skirted with
   fire-proof, non-decaying and non-corroding materials or shall be provided with a
    cement or concrete block exterior foundation.    if metal skirting is employed, it shall be
    painted and formed in a pattem complementary to the siding of the mobile home.

B. All awnings carports, ramadas, cabanas, and garages shall be painted and designed
   in a style complementary to the design of the mobile home.

C. Wheels shall be removed from all mobile homes at the time of installation on property.
    In addition, tongues, and hitches shall be removed from all mobile homes wider than
   ten (10) feet that are installed on any parcel of land, exclusive of licensed mobile
   home parks. The Director of Planning may exempt certain mobile homes from the last
   requirement when removal would damage the frame and weaken the structure.

SECTION 4.130Development Standards for Guest Houses (Added 1-92)
A guest house may be allowed as listed in specific zones (“F-F”, “R-R’, “R-R(10)’, “A-R”,
“R-1", “R-2”, “R-3", “R-4”, and “R-C”) on a legally created lot or parcel on which a primary
dwelling is situated, subject to the setback requirements of the underlying district, and the
provisions of this section;

A. Only one (1) guest house shall be allowed on a lot-of-record.

B. The maximum floor area of a guest house, including all levels and basement fioor
   areas shall not exceed six-hundred (600) square feet. Garage area shall not count
   toward the total floor area.

C. A guest house shall be located within one-hundred (100) feet of the primary dwelling
   on the subject lot-of-record. This distance shall be measured from the closest portion
    of each structure.

D. Occupants of a guest house and the primary dwelling shall live together as one house
     keeping unit, sharing one kitchen and one laundry facility, to be located in the primary

sr
Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions

                                                     (2009-2917
                                                            VO 96
                                                                                            Page 4-5

 dwelling.   A guest house shall be permitted one (1) bathroom, but not a refrigerator or
 freezer, range/stove/oven, or other cooking appliances.

. All public water, electricity, natural gas and sewer services for the guest house shall
  be extended   from the primary dwelling   service.   No   separate   meters for the guest
  house   shail be allowed.   A separate telephone line for the guest house               may be
 provided.

. A guest house shall use the same septic system as the primary dwelling.                Approval
 from the County Sanitarian shall be required.

                                                                 Chapter 4, Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                        July 22, 2009

                                            [3007-0207 b/o, BE
                          DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
         CHAPTER 19 STANDARDS FOR ENERGY FACILITIES
                    AND COMMERCIAL ENERGY FACILITIES

SECTION         TITLE                                                                     PAGE
19.005          PURPOSES                                                                  19-1
19.010          CLASSIFICATION OF ENERGY FACILITIES                                       19-1
19.020          OTHER ENERGY FACILITIES                                                   19-4
19.030          STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL                                                    19-1
19.040          ADDITIONAL APPROVAL STANDARDS FOR                                         19-8
                ENERGY FACILITIES AND COMMERCIAL
                ENERGY FACILITIES
19.050          CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL                                                    19-9

                           Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
                                            007-0367               C2       OSS           July 22, 2009
£3007- 0267   63   a gy
                                                                                                         Page 19-1

                 CHAPTER 19 STANDARDS FOR ENERGY FACILITIES
                            AND COMMERCIAL ENERGY FACILITIES

SECTION 19.005 Purposes
This chapter describes how to apply for county approval of a proposed hydroelectric, wind
energy, biomass, or geothermal facility. If outside of the A-1 zone county review authority
shall be limited to facilities with a nominal rated electric capacity of 25 MW or less, or
transmission   facilities carrying   230   kV or less.        If inside the A-1       Zone     county     review
authority shall extend to the capacity allowed by ORS 469.300, or if the applicant or the
County Court so desires for any reason, review authority shall be given to the Oregon
Department of Energy who shall decide the matter. It also describes how the county will
consider the energy, environmental, economic, and social consequences of a proposed
energy facility. A use approved by the county under this chapter will protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare, comply with the Statewide Planning Goals and
Guidelines, and comply with the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan.

SECTION     19.010   Classification of Energy Facilities

A.   Permitted Subject to Standards.       A proposed energy facility shall be approved by the
     Planning Director as a use permitted subject to standards if the proposed facility
     complies with the applicable standards of subsection 19.030 (A) through (C) and
     section 19.040, subject to the applicable conditions of section 19.050.

B. Conditional Use.       A proposed energy facility that is not permitted subject to standards
     may be approved by the Planning Commission as a conditional use if the proposed
     facility complies with the applicable standards of subsection 19.030 (D) through (F)
     and section 19.040, subject to the conditions of section 19.050 and other conditions
     found necessary to fulfill the purpose of this chapter.

SECTION     19.020   Other Energy Facilities

Energy facilities and commercial energy facilities other than hydroelectric, wind energy,
and transmission facilities are subject to the provisions of Chapter 5.

SECTION     19.030   Standards for Approval

A. A Hydroelectric        Facility as a Use     Permitted      Subject to Standards.              A proposed
     hydroelectric facility is a use permitted       subject to standards          if it complies with part
     19.030 (A)(1) and with part (AX2), or part (A)(3) below, and the applicable conditions
     of Section 19.050.

                                      Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities

                                                 (A009- lobe bY BH"
Page 19-2

     1.     Location. The facility shall comply with subsection 19.040(A) through (D).

    2.      Capacity       and    Source    of Water.        The      facility will comply         with   either subpart
            19.030(A)(2)(a) or (b).
                 The facility will produce 100 theoretical horsepower (thp) or less, or

            b. The facility takes water from and retums water to a man-made water
               conveyance system, without increasing the system's use of surface and ground
                 waters.

     3.     Other Small Scale Facilities.          A facility other than one in part 19.030(A2) with a
            maximum        generating capacity of       5 megawatts             (MW)       shall comply with all of the
            following:

                 Does      not   increase   the   maximum          surface          area   of an   impoundment      at an
                 existing dam or diversion or does not impound more than two acre feet at a
                 new impoundment or diversion.

                 Does not change the prevailing regime of storage and release or impede fish
                 management. Changes which improve fish management or existing adverse
                 effects of the dam or diversion may be permitted.

                 Does not require development of more than one mile of new vehicular access
                 routes.

                 Does      not require construction of a transmission line in a new right-of-way or
                 easement that results in clearing of a right-of-way or easement with a length
                 exceeding one mile or with an average cleared width exceeding 50 feet in the
                 zone.

                 Does not use a diversion or intake structure the height of which is more than
                 twice the diameter of the penstock or ten feet, whichever is less.

            f.   Does not increase naturally-occurring head by more than five percent.

B. A Transmission                Facility as a use Permitted           Subject to Standards.              A transmission
     facility is a Use permitted subject. to standards if it complies with part 19.030(B)(1) or
     with parts (B)(2) and (BX 3), and the applicable conditions of section 19.050.

     1.     Location and Height.

                 The facility shall comply with subsections 19.040(B) and (C), and

Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial         rgy Facilities
July 22, 2009
                                                                    07-0907                        65         48%
        b. The      facility shall   result in clearing   of a right-of-way or easement                with an
           average width not greater than 50 feet in the F-F and F-1 zones, or

        c. The facility shall not increase the extent to which the right-of-way or easement
           is in an area listed in parts 19.040(A\1)} through (3), except as permitted by
           part 19.040(A}(4).

        d. The facility is less than 200 feet.

   2.   Existing Use. The facility shall be built in or adjoining an existing public road or
        utility right-of-way or easement, and

   3. Width.        The facility will not increase the average width of the clearing for the
        existing right-of-way or easement          by more than      50%     nor resuit in clearing of a
        right-of-way or easement with an average width greater than 125 feet, whichever is
        less, and

C. A Wind Facility as a Use Permitted Subject to Standards. A proposed wind facility is a
   use permitted subject to standards if it complies with parts 19.030(C)(1) through (8). A
   wind measurement device is a use permitted subject to standards if it complies with
   subpart 19.030(C)(3)(b) and parts (C)(5), (C)\(7) and (C)(8). In addition, a WECS and
   a wind measurement device are subject to the standards of subsection 19.040(A)
   through (C) and the applicable conditions of section 19.050.

   1.   WECS       Height.   The total WECS     shall not exceed 200 feet.

   2.   Density.     No more than two WECS         shall be on the same site and under the same
        ownership or management.

   3.   Setbacks.

        a. A WECS shall be setback from all adjoining property lines as described in (1)
           and (2) below. An easement that complies with ORS 105.900 through .915
           may be substituted for required setbacks. The setback shall be measured from
           the center point of the tower or pedestal.

           1.    A horizontal axis WECS       shall be setback at least five rotor diameters.

           2.    A vertical WECS      shall be setback the total WECS         height.

        b. The furthest horizontal extension of a WECS or wind measurement device
           (including guy wires) shall not extend into yards required in the underlying
           zones or be closer than twelve feet to any major structure, or right-of-way or

                                                     Lier- 030") bi 38"
                                         Chapter 19, wr    for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
Page 19-4

                  easement for above-ground telephone, electrical transmission and distribution
                  lines.

    4.      Minimum       Height.      The    lowest   point in the sweep       of   a WECS     blade shall be a
            minimum       height above         the tallest current or foreseeable            obstruction within a
            horizontal,    500      foot   radius of   a WECS      or a radius       of 10   rotor diameters   (for
            horizontal axis) and 5 WECS heights (for vertical axis), whichever is greater, as
            described in (a), (b), and (c) below. The radius shall be measured from the center
            point of the tower.

            a.    At least 30 feet for a horizontal axis WECS on a               site without site-specific wind
                  direction data or representative off-site data.

            b. At least 30 feet above current or foreseeable obstructions within 45 degrees of                        |
               the direction(s) of prevailing wind for a horizontal axis WECS on a site with                          |
                   site-specific wind direction data or representative off-site data.

            c. Atleast six feet for a vertical axis WECS.

    5.      Public Access.          Public access to a vertical axis WECS              shall be limited using (c)
            below. Public access to a horizontal axis WECS                     shall be limited using one or a
            combination of the following methods:

            a.     Removal of tower climbing fixtures to 12 feet from the ground,

            b.     Installation of a locking, anti-climb device on the tower, or

            c.     Installation of a protective fence at lease six feet tall with a locking gate.

         . Visual Effects. Except when the applicant demonstrates that such measures will
           significantly interfere with wind access over the life of the WECS, a WECS shall be
           sited to reduce visual impacts using means including, but not limited to, the
            following:

            a.    Setting the WECS against a visual backdrop that, because of color, texture or
                  topography, helps the WECS blend into its surrounding environment.

                 . Using non-reflective materials and colors that blend into the background unless
                   otherwise required by the Federal Aviation Administration or Oregon State
                   Aeronautics Division.

                 . No advertising shall be placed on the WECS. Advertising does not include the
                   manufacturer's label or other signs required by law.

Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
July 22, 2009                                                >    D04-         DIL
                                                                                       7       b7         88
                                                                                                         Page 19-5

        d. Setting the WECS          back from scenic highways and zones containing any of the
             protected areas listed in subsections 19.040(A) and (B).

   7.   Notice.  The following        signs   shall    be clearly visible on       the WECS         tower     and
        accessory facilities.

        a.   "No Trespassing" signs shall be attached to any perimeter fence.

        b. "Danger" signs shall be posted at the height of five feet on WECS towers and
             accessory structures.

        c. A-sign shall be posted on the tower showing an emergency telephone number.

        d. The manual electrical and/or overspeed shutdown disconnect switch(es) shall
           be clearly labeled.

   8.   Guy Wires. All guy wires shall be sheathed              in a bright orange or yellow covering
        from three to eight feet above the ground.

D. Conditional Use Standards for a Hydroelectric Facility.               A hydroelectric facility shall be
   approved if it complies with the following standards and section 19.040, subject to the
   conditions of section 19.050.

   1.   Fish, Wildlife,    and   Plant Resources.         The   facility shall not have          a significant
        adverse effect on endangered or threatened fish, wildlife, or plant species or their
        critical habitats or on other significant habitats identified in the comprehensive
        plan.

   2. Visual Effects.       The facility considers visual effects by means including, but not
        limited to, the following.

        a.   Using materials and colors that blend with the background.

        b. Setting development back from the edge of public arterial rights-of-way,
           viewpoints,  and   other significant visual   resources    identified in the
           comprehensive plan, and setting accessory facilities back from Class | and II
             streams.

        c.   Retaining    or planting vegetation       to obscure    views of the development                from
             significant viewpoints identified in the comprehensive plan.

   3.   Water Use. Use of water for the facility is not detrimental to the public interest or
        contrary to the achievement of an integrated, coordinated program for water
        management.     A Water Resources Department or Water Policy Review Board

                                        Chapter 300:        for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
                                                                                                      July 22, 2009
                                                      AO0G-0207                   OS 0-89
Page 19-6

            decision to grant or approve use of the amount of water proposed for the use shall
            be conclusive proof that the facility complies                     with this standard,     unless      the
            approval has expired.

E. Conditional Use Standards for a Transmission Facility. A transmission facility shall be
   approved if it complies with the following standards and section 19.040, subject to the
    conditions of section 19.050.

    1.      Use of Existing Routes. The development uses available developed or approved
            road and utility rights-of-way or easements that can accommodate the proposed
            facility.   New routes are permitted if more adverse energy, environment, economic,
            and social consequences would result from                          using   an   existing   route     than
            development of other rights-of-way or easements.

    2. Visual Effects. The facility considers visual effects by means including but not
       limited to the following.

                 Avoiding ridgelines, scenic areas, unique or significant                     views    and     vistas,
                 hilltops, or other high or visuaily prominent areas.

                 Building the facilities near the edge of contiguous timber areas or in swales,
                 dips, and depressions that provide a backdrop for or obscure the facility to the
                 extent these features are available between the ends of the facility.

                 Using materials and colors that blend with the background                      unless otherwise
                 required by the Federal Aviation Administration or Oregon                     State Aeronautics
                 Division.

                 Setting development back from the edge of public arterial rights-of-way, Class |
                 and Il streams, viewpoints, and other significant visual resources identified in
                 the comprehensive plan and retaining or planting vegetation to obscure views
                 of the development from those areas.

    3.      In-Stream Towers.       A transmission tower may be permitted in a Class | or II stream
            if it complies with (a) and (b) below.

            a. Adjoining towers and conductors cannot safely and economically support the
               transmission line(s) that span the stream without an in-stream tower.

            b. The transmission        line cannot be safely and economically placed                    under the
                 water or streambed.

F. Conditional Use Standards for Wind                     Facilities.    A wind energy conversion system
    (WECS) shall be approved if it complies with parts 19.030(C)(6), (C)(7), (C)(8) and the

Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
July 22, 2009
                                                         (3009-            03¢7               OF             8%
                                                                                                           Page 19-7

standards in (F)(1) through (6) below. In addition, a WECS is subject to the standards
in section 19.040 and the applicable conditions of section 19.050.

1.   Setbacks.   WECS    shall comply with subparts (a), (b) and (c) below.

     a. WECS shall comply with the requirements of subparts 19.030(C)(3)(a) and (b).

     b. A WECS tower or pedestal shail be setback as described in (1) and (2) below
        from the edge of a public arterial right-of-way and property lines of downwind
        lots. An easement that complies with ORS 105.900 through .915 may be
        substituted for required setbacks. The setback shall be measured from the
        center point of the tower or pedestal.

        (1) A horizontal axis WECS shall be setback at least five rotor diameters or 100
            feet, whichever is greater.

        (2) A vertical axis WECS       shall be setback at least the total WECS              height.

     c. A WECS      shall be set back from lots in residential zones and significant visual
        resources    identified   in   the   comprehensive         plan    one    quarter      mile         or   as
        described in (1) and (2) below, whichever is less.

        (1) At least 20 rotor diameters for a horizontal axis WECS.

        (2) At least 10 WECS      heights for a vertical axis WECS.

2.   Minimum Height.

     a. A horizontal axis WECS shall comply with subpart 19.030(C)(4)(b).                      However, a
        WECS     in a windfarm is not an obstruction to other WECS                on-site.

     b. A vertical axis WECS shall comply with subpart (D)(3\d)(3).

3.   Public Access.       Public access to WECS shall be limited using one or a
     combination of the methods contained in section 19.030(C)(5) and a protective
     fence at least six feet tall enclosing the site.

4.   Wind Resources. The site shall have site-specific data documenting wind speed
     and direction or off-site data from within the same topoclimatological zone as the
     proposed site.

5.   Fish, Wildlife, and Plant Resources.         The facility shall not have a significant
     adverse effect on endangered species or their critical habitats or on other
     significant habitats identified in the comprehensive plans.

                                  Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
                                                                                                      ly    22, 2009

                                                  H007-Oa-7                      70          788
Page 19-8

     6.     Bonding. An applicant who is not the owner of the proposed site shall post a bond
            or an alternative acceptable to the county which is sufficient to guarantee removal
            and disposal of the wind farm components and restoration of the land in case of
            noncompliance with the provisions of the ordinance.

SECTION          19.040       Additional Approval Standards                        for     Energy        Facilities    and
                              Commercial Energy Facilities

A. Protected Areas.            An energy facility may               not be sited in the areas listed in part
     19.040(A)(1) through (3) unless the facility complies with part (A)(4) below.

     1.     National parks, national monuments,               national wildlife refuges, BLM                  Outstanding
            Natural Areas, BLM Areas of Critical Environmental Concem, Federal Research
            Natural Areas, U.S. Forest Service Special Interest Areas, Wilderness areas under
            the Federal Wilderness Act and areas recommended for designation as wilderness
            areas pursuant to section 603 of the Federal Land Policy Management Act of
            1976, Federally designated Wild and Scenic Rivers or any rivers recommended for
            designation by the National Park Service.

            State of Oregon parks, waysides, refuges, wildlife management areas, and natural
            area preserves, scenic waterways and adjacent lands designated pursuant to ORS
            309.845, wild fish streams designated by the Oregon Department of Fish and
            Wildlife, and experimental areas established by the Rangeland Resources
            Programs, School of Agricultural, OSU.

            Areas which the comprehensive plan designates as not suitable for a given type
            and size of energy facility, because the area contains significant open space,
            mineral resources, fish and wildlife habitat, scenic views and sites, waterbodies,
            wilderness,    cultural,    geologic,       historic,     botanical,         research,       or   recreational
            resources that cannot be protected from the adverse consequences of the facility.

            Exceptions.  An energy facility may be permitted in an area listed in parts
            19.040(AX1) through (3) above if it complies with at least one of the following
            exceptions, and it will be compatible with adjacent uses and resources.                             However,
            a hydroelectric dam or diversion is not permitted in a scenic waterway or adjacent
            lands designated pursuant to ORS 390.825.

            a. Accessory Use. A proposed energy facility is accessory to a permitted use.

            b. Authority    Granted       by   Management.             The     public      agency        responsible    for
                designation or management of a protected area in which an energy facility is

Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
July 22, 2009                                                       (3009-0009                       W        d- 88
                                                                                                                Page 19-9

              proposed     has     authorized   the application         or approved          the   proposed     facility.
              However, this is not an exception for areas listed in part 19.040 (A)(3).

        c.    Substantially Equivalent Substitute.           The applicant provides resources equal or
              better in quantity and quality to those adversely affected by the energy facility.

        d.    Comprehensive         Plan   Designation.      The      comprehensive            plan designates       the
              site for an energy facility of the scale and type proposed.

B. Conditionally Protected Areas. An energy facility or commercial energy facility in an
   area which the comprehensive plan designates as conditionally suitable for the scale
   and type of facility proposed shall comply with the conditions provided for the facility in
   the comprehensive plan.

C. F-1 Zone. A transmission facility that results in a clearing with an average width
   greater than 50 feet, a hydroelectric facility on a site where the average slope of the
   land within 200 feet of the edge of the project area exceeds 20 percent or uses an
   impoundment containing not more than 1000 acre feet, and a wind facility on a site
   which occupies not more than 50 acres on land zoned F-1 shall comply with parts
   19.040(C\1) through (4), except a facility that is accessory to a permitted use.

   1.   The    facility is sited on land that is generally unsuited                      for forest use,      or use of
        predominant forest areas            is warranted          for the safe, economical,             and    efficient
        operation of the facility;

   2. Will not significantly affect forest uses on the site or surrounding iand;

   3. Will not alter the stability of the land use pattern in the area; and

   4,   Will be consistent with forest policies of the comprehensive plan.

D. Compliance       with     the    Comprehensive         Pian.        The    facility     shall   comply     with   the
   applicable policies of the comprehensive plan.

SECTION 19.050           Conditions of Approval
Approval of an energy facility shall be subject to the following conditions. In addition, the
approval authority may require an energy facility that is approved as a conditional use to
comply with other conditions as necessary to fulfill the purpose of this chapter.

A. Coordination

   1. Continuing         Notice.     The   applicant shall provide the county with a copy of all
        applications for, or notices of, state or federal permits,                       licenses, exemptions,         or

                                           Chapter 19, Vs          for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities

                                                            3009-0309 7, 89
Page 19-10

          variances     in conjunction with the construction and                 licensing of the facility and
          proposed significant changes to the facility. The applicant shall make a good faith
          effort to provide the copy at the earliest possible time.

     2.   State and Federal Authority.            The applicant should demonstrate that all necessary
          state and federal permits,              licenses, exemptions, variances, or authority are
          approved before initiating construction of the facility.

     3.   Other Terms & Conditions. The terms and conditions of the following authorities
          satisfy substantially similar standards and conditions of this chapter and supersede
          inconsistent county conditions.

          a. A dredge and fill permit is granted by the Division of State Lands under ORS
             541.615;

          b.    The proposed action is a forest operation that complies with the                        Forest
                Practices Act under ORS 526 - 527 and the Rules of Forest Practices;

          c. Written approval of development within the Oregon Scenic Waterways System
             is granted by the Department of Transportation under ORS 390.800, the
             Energy Facility Siting Council under ORS 469.430-469.570, or the Water
             Resources Department under ORS 537.130 through 537.450;

          d. Written approval of the Department of Environmental Quality when air or water
             quality discharge permits, exemptions, or variances are granted; or

          e. The facility complies with substantially similar standards of the special districts
             listed in section (F)(4) below.

     4.   Consistency       with    Service      Districts     and     Special   Purpose    Agencies.     The
          development       shall comply with the hazardous                or solid waste, flood, surface, or
          groundwater, soil conservation, or resource management program(s) adopted by
          the appropriate emergency management          authority, drainage district, soil
          conservation agency, or resource management agency(ies).

B. Environmental Protection Overlay Districts. An energy facility or commercial energy
   facility in the following overlay, combining, or floating districts shall comply with
     applicable terms of those districts:

     1. The Flood Hazard Overlay district,

     2. The Geologic Hazard Overlay district,

     3.   The Mineral Resources Overlay district,

Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Epergy Facilities
July 22, 2009                                                3009-vo]                   7 4     ye SE
                                                                                                       Page 19-11

       The Cultural, Historic and Archaeological Overlay district,

       The Sensitive Wildlife Habitat district,

       The Columbia Gorge Overlay district,

       The Airport Impact Overlay district, and

       The Natural Areas Overlay district.

. Protection of Water Quality.

  1. The    development shall comply with the water quality standards for dissolved
       oxygen   and   temperature     adopted   by the Oregon      Environmental Quality
       Commission (EQC) and codified in OAR 340-41 and shall not increase turbidity.
       Water quality effects of forest operations shall comply with the Oregon Rules for
       Forest Practices (ORFP) and the Forest Practices Act.

       To the extent not inconsistent with EQC and ORFP                    rules, the Planning Director
       may allow these standards to be exceeded for a specified short time when
       necessary to accommodate essential construction, emergency, or other permitted
       uses and actions.

. Protection    of Water    Bodies     and    Wetlands.         The     development         will   incorporate
  mitigation and conditions to protect Class | and Class II streams and wetlands and the
  banks and vegetation along those streams and wetlands affected.

. Soil Protection.     Development shall not cause a significant increase in erosion or
  sedimentation based on the topography, use and soil classification of the site and
  access to it. Practices to reduce or avoid erosion and sedimentation include but are
  not limited to the following.

  1.   Structures and access avoid areas of steep slopes where                     high cuts and fills are
       required and shall use natural contours.

       The smallest practical area of land is to be exposed for the shortest practical time
       during development.

       Measures are used such as seeding and sodding, temporary use of straw or fabric
       cover, aggregate cover, diversions authorized by state permit, sediment basins,
       and filters.

                                     Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
                                                                                                             2009
                                                             e7                   TYAS
                                                   (4004 -lo
Page 19-12

F.   Health and Safety.

     1.   Drinking Water.       No water sources shall be used for consumption unless approved
          in writing by the Oregon State Health Division.

          Toilets.    Field toilets approved        by the county sanitarian or Oregon     Department of
          Environmenta! Quality shall be available at construction sites in the vicinity and
          upstream of Class | or Class II streams or other water supplies.

          Grounding.      All structures which may be charged with lightning shall be grounded
          according to the Oregon State Electrical Specialty Code.

          Electrical Safety.      Transmission lines associated with the facility shall not generate
          an electrical field greater than 9 kV per meter measured at grade and shall comply
          with the National Electrical Safety Code, based on a written decision by the Public
          Utility Commissioner.

          Air Safety.      Any structure that is more than 200 feet above grade or exceeds
          airport imaginary surfaces defined in                OAR: 738, shall comply with the air hazard
          rules of the Oregon State Aeronautics Division (OSAD) and Federal                       Aviation
          Administration (FFA), based on a written action by those agencies.

          Communications. The proposed facility shall not unduly reduce or interfere with
          electromagnetic communication signals. If undue reduction or interference occurs,
          the applicant shall return reception levels to pre-facility levels.

          Noise. Construction and operation of the proposed facility shall comply with the
          noise regulations of the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) in
          OAR 340-35, based on a written decision by DEQ.           In addition, a wind farm
          application shall identify noise sensitive property(ies) and arnbient noise levels
          prior to construction.

          Public Roads.     Mud and other debris from related construction, road wear from
          related vehicles, or facility operation shall not create a hazard on public roads and
          highways.      Mud and debris that fall onto a county road should be removed by the
          applicant as soon as possible.

G, Fish and Wildlife.

     1. The applicant shall consult with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife
        (ODFW) concerning the facility and shall provide information as requested to
        ODFW. The development shall be subject to ODFW recommendations that are
          consistent with the county decision regarding the facility.

Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities

                                                           fHi04-p207                7Sy 88%
duly 22, 2009
                                                                                                 Page 19-13

2. A transmission line sited adjacent to wetlands or water bodies identified as critical
   bird habitat in the comprehensive plan shall comply with (a), (b), or (c) below:

   a. The line is lower than the level of surrounding treetops.

   b. The line is at least 50 feet from the edge of the nearest wetland or water body.

   c. The line is separated from the nearest wetland or water body by topography or
      substantial vegetation, does not use static or lightning wires, does use marker
      balls or flags on the line, or is perpendicular to the prevailing winds.

                                          bir try 205,88
                              Chapter 19, Standards for Energy Facilities and Commercial Energy Facilities
                   DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
                   CHAPTER 20 SITE PLAN REVIEW

SECTION   TITLE                                         PAGE
20.010    PURPOSE                                       20-1
20. 020   APPROVAL, REJECTION AND MODIFICATION          20-1
20.030    CONTENTS OF THE SITE PLAN                     20-1
20.040    APPROVAL STANDARDS                            20-2
20.050    OFF-STREET PARKING                            20-3
20.060    PUBLIC PARKING AREA                           20-5
20.070    OFF-STREET LOADING                            20-6
20.080    GENERAL PROVISIONS-OFF-STREET PARKING         20-6
          AND LOADING
20.090    HOME OCCUPATIONS                              20-7
20.100    HOME OCCUPATION TO HOST COMMERCIAL EVENTS     20-8

                                                 57   op se"
                           [404-0204
                                                                                                           Page 20-1

                                        CHAPTER 20         SITE PLAN REVIEW

SECTION 20.010               Purpose
The purpose of the Site Plan Review procedure is to enable the Approving Authority to
review development proposals for conformity with the provisions of this ordinance and to
allow the imposition of such conditions on the development or projects as are necessary
to bring it into conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and surrounding development.

SECTION 20.020 Approval, Rejection and Modification
Any such site plan may be approved, rejected and modified, or approved subject to
conditions. Any such site plan, after approval, shall be amended through the same
procedure as in the initial approval of such site plan; except, that minor alterations or
modification to a previously approved site plan may be approved by the Planning Director;
provided that, in the judgment of the Planning Director, such modifications or alterations
do not represent deviations of a substantial nature.

SECTION 20.030 Contents of the Site Plan
The Site Plan shall clearly indicate the following information:

A.   Lot dimensions.

B. Location,         size,    height,    of all existing    or   proposed   buildings   and    structures,      and
     illustrating the buildings and parking facilities on abutting properties.

C. Location,         size and dimension          of all yards and      setbacks   and   all spaces       between
     buildings.

D. Walls and fences:             Location, height and materials.

E.   Off-street parking:

     1.   Location, dimensions and method of improvement of all driveways and parking
          areas consistent with Sections 20.050 & 20.080.

     2.   Number of spaces consistent with Section 20.050 & 20.080 and internal circulation
          pattern.

     3.   Size and location of existing and proposed curb openings.

F. Access:           Pedestrian, vehicular, service; and definitions of all points of ingress and
   egress.

                                                           V300y-000q 7-88
                                                                                        Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
                                                                                                        July 22, 2009
Page 20-2

G. Signs:         Location, size, height, material and method of illumination.

H.   Loading:        Location,    dimensions,      number         of spaces,      internal circulation and      access
     from public right-of-way consistent with 20.070 & 20.080.

I.   Lighting:      General nature, location and hooding devices (not including interior building
     lighting).

J.   The location, dirnensions and methods of improvement for all property to be dedicated
     to general public purposes or to public utilities.

K. A detailed plan for tandscaping,                if determined           necessary by the Planning Director
   which shall clearly illustrate:

     1.     Plants and     tree    species,     their   initial    sizes    and    other      proposed     landscaping
            materials.

     2. The        location and    dimensions       of all areas to be devoted                  to landscaping,    and
            location of automatic sprinkler systems.

L.   Outdoor storage and activities, if permitted                   in the zone,      showing type, location and
     height of screening devices.

M. Drainage and grading plan.

N. Identification        of proposed      trash     storage        locations,     including     proposed     enclosure
     design construction and access for pick-up purposes.

O. Location of existing utility poles.

P. Such data as may be required by the Planning Director to act on the application.

SECTION 20.040 Approval Standards
Upon completion of the Site Plan Review, the Approving Authority shall approve, approve
with conditions, or disapprove the site plan.    In approving the plan, the Approving
Authority shall find that:

A. All provisions of this ordinance and other applicable ordinances are complied with.

B. Elements of the site plan are arranged so that:

     1. Traffic congestion is avoided.

Chapter 20, Site Pian Review
July 22, 2009

                                                          (3-0907                              79 n 88
                                                                                                        Page 20-3

     2.   Pedestrian and vehicular safety and welfare are protected.

     3. Significant features and public amenities are preserved and maintained.

     4. There will be minimal adverse effect on surrounding property.

C.   Proposed lighting is arranged to direct light away from adjoining properties.

D.   Proposed signs      will   not   interfere   with    traffic or limit visibility by size,    location     or
     illumination.

SECTION 20.050        Off-Street Parking
At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of enlargement or change in use
of an existing structure, off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with this
Section. In an existing use, the parking space shall not be eliminated if elimination would
result in less space than is required by this Section. Where square feet are specified the
area measured shall be the gross floor area necessary to the functioning of the particular
use of the property but shall exclude space devoted to off-street parking or loading.
Where employees are specified, persons counted shall be those working on the premises
during the largest shift at peak season, including proprietors.

The following are the uses and minimum standards provided for off-street parking:

A.   Residential

     1.   Single-family dwelling:     One (1) space per dwelling unit.

     2.   Residential hotel, rooming or boarding house: Four (4) spaces per five (5) guest
          accommodations, plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

     3.   Two family or multi-family dwellings:          Three (3) spaces per two (2) dwelling units.

B. Commercial Residential

1.   Motel:   One (1) space per guest room plus one (1) space for owner or manager.

2.   Club or Lodge: One (1) space per five (5) seats, or one (1) space for each fifty (50)
     square feet of floor area used for assembly, whichever is greater.

C. institutional

     1. Welfare or correctional institutions:            One (1) space per five (5) beds for patients or

                                                                                     Chapter 20, Site Plan Review

                                                         f23004- foe]                 SO oe
Page 20-4

            inmates, plus one (1) space per employee.

     2.     Convalescent hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, rest home for the aged:          One (1)
            space per five (5) beds for patients or residents, plus one (1) space per employee.

     3.     Hospital:   Three (3) spaces per two (2) beds.

D.   Places of Public Assembly

     1. Church:         One (1) space for four (4) seats or every eight (8) feet of bench length in
            the main auditorium.

            Library, reading room, museum, art gallery:      One (1) space per four hundred (400)
            square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per two employees.

          . Pre-school, nursery, kindergarten:       Two   (2) spaces   per teacher,   plus off-street
            loading and unloading facility.

            Elementary or junior high school: One (1) space per classroom plus one (1) space
            per administrative employee or one (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight (8)
            feet of bench length in the main auditorium, whichever is greater.

            High School: One (1) space per classroom plus one (1) space per administrative
            employee plus one (1) space for each six (6) students or one (1) space per four (4)
            seats or eight (8) feet of bench length in the main auditorium, whichever is greater.

            Other auditorium, meeting room:        One (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight
            (8) feet of bench length.

E.   Commercial Amusement

     1. Stadium, arena, theater: One (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight (8) feet of
        bench length or equivalent capacity if no seating is provided.

     2.     Bowling alley:     Five (5) spaces per alley plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

     3.     Dance hall, skating rink:    One (1) space per one hundred (100) square feet of floor
            area plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

F.   Commercial

     1.     Retail store except as provided in subsection (2):     One (1) space per two hundred
            (200) square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
July 22, 2009

                                                       P004-2209                   8/4 9%
                                                                                        Page 20-5

     2. Service or repair shop, retail store handling exclusively in bulk merchandise such
        as automobiles and furniture: One (1) space per six hundred (600) square feet of
          floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

     3.   Bank, office (except medical and dental): One (1) space per six hundred (600)
          square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

     4,   Medical and dental clinic: One (1) space per three hundred (300) square feet of
          floor area plus one (1) space for every four (4) seats.

     5.   Eating and drinking establishment: One (1) space per two hundred (200) square
          feet of floor area, plus one (1) space for every four seats.

     6.   Mortuaries:   One (1) space per four (4) seats or every (8) feet of bench length in
          chapels.

G. Industral

     1.   Storage warehouse,    manufacturing establishment, rail or trucking freight terminal:
          One (1) space per employee.

     2.   Wholesale establishment: One (1) space per employee          plus one (1) space    per
          seven hundred (700) square feet of patron serving area.

SECTION 20.060 Public Parking Area
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public parking area or an automobile or trailer
sales area shall be developed as follows:

A.   Such areas shall be surfaced with permanent paving; they shall have bumper rails or
     curbs and be enclosed by a sturdy wall, fence or evergreen hedge not less than thirty
     (30) inches in height nor more than six (6) feet in height. Such wall, fence or hedge
     shall not enclose any required front yard or required side yard on the street side of a
     corner lot.   Any such required front or side yard shall be properly maintained.   Where
     such public parking area abuts or lies within an "A" and "R"” zone, the required wall,
     fence or hedge shall not be less than six (6) feet in height on the sides or rear yards
     abutting or within such "A" or "R" zone.

B. Where a public parking area or automobile or trailer sales area is illuminated, the
   lights shall be fixed so as to reflect away from adjoining premises in residential zones.

                                                                         £     oy ee
                                              P004-0967
Page 20-6

SECTION 20.070                Off-Street Loading

A.   Schools:      A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of passenger vehicles for
     the purpose of loading and unloading children shall be located on the site of any
     school having a capacity greater than twenty-five (25) students.

B.   Merchandise, materials or supplies: Buildings or structures to be built or substantially
     altered to receive and distribute materials or merchandise by truck shall provide and
     maintain off-street loading berths in sufficient numbers and size to adequately handle
     the needs of the particular use. If loading space has been provided in connection with
     an     existing    use     or is added   to an    existing   use,   the   loading   space   shall   not   be
     eliminated        if elimination would    result in less space than is required to adequately
     handle the needs of the particular use.                Off-street parking      areas   used to fulfill the
     requirements of this Ordinance shall not be used for loading and unloading operations
     except during periods of the day when not required to take care of parking needs.

SECTION 20.080             General Provisions - Off-Street Parking and Loading

A. The provisions and maintenance of off-street parking and loading spaces are
   continuing obligations of the property owner. No buildirig permit shall be issued until
   plans are presented that show property that is and will remain available for exclusive
     use of off-street parking and loading space. The subsequent use of property for which
     the building permit is issued shall be conditional upon the unqualified continuance and
     availability of the amount of parking and loading space required by this Ordinance.
     Should the owner or occupant of a lot or buildirig change the use to which the lot or
     building is put, thereby increasing off-street parking or loading requirements, it shall be
     unlawful and a violation of this Ordinance to begin or maintain such altered use until
     the required increase in off-street parking or loading is provided.

B.   Requirements for types of buildings and uses not specifically listed herein shall be
     determined by the Director of Planning based upon the requirements of comparable
     uses listed herein.

C. In the event several              uses   occupy    a single structure or parcel of land, the total
     requirements for off-street parking shall be the sum of the requirements of the several
     uses computed separately.

D. Owners of two or more uses, structures or parcels of land may agree to utilize jointly
     the same parking and loading spaces when the hours of operation do not overlap.

E. Off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same or abutting lot with the building
     or use they are intended to serve.

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
July 22, 2009

                                                           Pos. 0207                             $3488
                                                                                                  Page 20-7

F.    Required       parking   spaces   shall be available for the parking   of operable     passenger
      automobiles of residents, customers, patrons and employees only, and shall not be
      used for storage of vehicles or materials or for the parking of trucks used in
      conducting the business or use.

      Plans       shall be submitted     in sufficient detail so that they may     be   reviewed      and
      approved by the appropriate reviewing authority.

      Design requirements for parking iots:

      1. Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall have a durable and
           dustless, but not necessarily paved, surface maintained adequately for all weather
           use.

      2.   Except for parking to serve residential uses, parking and loading areas adjacent to
           or within residential zones or adjacent to residential uses shall be designed to
           minimize disturbance of residents.

      3. Access aisles shail be of sufficient width for all vehicle tuming and maneuvering.

      4.   Groups of more than four (4) parking spaces shall be served by a driveway so that
           no backing movement or other maneuvering will be required within a street.

      5.   Lighting of the parking area shall be deflected from a residential zone.

      Required parking spaces shall be improved and available for use by the time the use
      to be served by the parking space is ready for occupancy.

SECTION 20.090 Home Occupations
Home occupations, as defined in Section 1.090 shall be subject to Sections 2.040 ~
20.080 as well as the following criteria:

A. Will be operated by a resident of the property on which the business is located;

      Will employ no more than five full or part-time persons.

     . Will be operated substantially in the dwelling or other buildings normally associated
       with uses permitted in the zone in which the property is located.

     . Will not interfere with existing uses on nearby land or with other uses permitted in the
      zone in which the property is located;

      Will have retail sales only as an activity incidental or secondary to the primary home

                                                                               Chapter 20, Site Pian Review

                                                   P3004-0007                  £4488
Page 20-8

     occupation use;

F.   Will not display, or create outside the structure, any extemal evidence of the operation
     of the home occupation other than one non-animated, non-illuminated name plate, on
     premises, and in conformance with the size restrictions of the underlying zone;

G. The home occupation shall not unreasonably interfere with other uses permitted in
     the zone in which the property is located.

H. Construction of a structure that would          not otherwise    be allowed       in the zone is not
   permitted.

I.   Will be reviewed annuaily by the Approving Authority. The approval shall continue if
     the home occupation continues to comply with the requirements of this section.

On High Value Lands in the Exclusive Farm Use Zone (Not Applicable to Section 20.100)

J.   Home       occupations    may   only   be authorized   in existing     dwelling    and    structures
     accessory to an existing dwelling.

K. Home occupations may not be authorized in structures accessory to resource use.

L. A home occupation iocated on high-value farmland may employ only residents of
     the home.

Section 20.100          Home Occupation to Host Commercial Events (Exclusive Farm Use
Zone only)

The section is not intended to apply to events hosted at such public gathering places as
churches, community centers, grange halls, or schools, or similar structures; or to
events hosted by non-profit organizations for charitable purposes. Nor is this Ordinance
intended to apply to events           covered   by the State’s     Mass    Gathering     Statute (ORS
433.735 - 433.770).

In addition to meeting Sections 20.010 — 20.090              above,       home     occupations   to host
commercial events must meet the following criteria:

A.   Frequency of Events:     This shall be determined through               the    review    process   to
     minimize the potential impact to the local agricultural region.

B. Maximum Number of Guests: Shall be based on the capacity of the site, but shall
   not include more than 300 guests at any one event.

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
July 22, 2009

                                                  Y.00- foc,                           Bh 54
                                                                                                      Page 20-9

Cc. Duration of Event: This shail be determined based on the potential impact to
    adjacent properties but no event shall take place outside the hours of 7:00 am —
   10:00 pm.

D. Noise: It is unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made or
   continued, any noise, which unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
   the comfort,       repose,   health,   peace,   or safety   of a reasonable        person     of normal
   sensitivities present in the area. Factors to consider in evaluating whether a noise is
   loud, disturbing, or excessive for the purposes of this section, shall include, but not
   be limited to the following:

          The volume of the noise;
          The intensity of the noise;
          The duration of the noise;
          Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant;
          The time of day or night the noise occurs;
          Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
          Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
          The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates and where it
          is received;
   e      Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or noncommercial activity.

   Noise shall be considered excessive and in violation of this Section if it meets one of
   the following criteria:

   1. The noise is plainly audible from within any closed dwelling unit that is not the
          source of the sound; or

   2.     The sound    peak pressure level of the noise, as measured           on the A scale, shall
          not exceed sixty (60) dB(A) during the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. as
          measured at any of the complainant's property lines within a residential district or
          near a residential area.

   Parking:      At least 200 square feet of parking space shall be required for each
   vehicle. Parking areas may be developed using paving blocks, gravel, or other
   pervious surfaces; asphalt, concrete and other imperious materials shall be
   prohibited.

G. Fire     &   Emergency       Vehicle    Access:    Shall    comply   with   Fire     &      Life   Safety
   Requirements for Fire Department Access and Water Supplies.

H. Catering: Operator shall ensure that only caterers licensed in the States of Oregon
   or Washington are contracted to provide food; caterers shall be bonded.

                                                                               Chapter 20, Site Plan Review

                                                   /009- 0207 864_ 3¢
                                                                                                July 22, 2009
Page 20-10

I.   Alcohol:      Operator shall comply with all requirements of the Oregon           Liquor Control
     Commission (OLCC), if alcohol is served during an event.

J. Toilet_facilities shall be portable with available hand-sanitizing or hand-washing
   facilities. Use of the dwelling’s on-site septic facilities is not allowed for an event,
     except by residents or over-night guests of the facility.

K. Sign: One temporary sign may be allowed in addition any other sign allowed as part
   of a prior approval. The sign shall not exceed eight (8) square feet in size and shall
   be placed on private property on the day of the event and shall be removed within
   24 hours after the event.

L.   Contents of the Site Plan: In addition to the requirements of Section 20.030 above,
     the applicant shall submit a written narrative and site plan addressing the following
     issue:

     1.   Designated area and existing structures to be used for the events

     2.   Number of events anticipated per season

          Frequency of events

          Maximum number of guests intend to serve

          Noise

          Infrastructure — How will you provide electricity and utilities to the event?

          Parking & Circulation — Need to         provide   one   (10’   x 20’)   parking   space   per
          vehicle; estimate 3 people per car.

          Traffic and Access

          Environmental Health Aspects

          a.    How will food be provided? Where will it be served?

          b.    What is your domestic water source?

          c.    Indicate how many portable toilets will be provided,         as well as how     hand-
                sanitizing or hand-washing facilities will be provided.

          10. Safety & Insurance

Chapter 20, Site Plan Review
July 22, 2009

                                                3007-007                               87 88
                                                                                       Page 20-11

      11.Are alcoholic beverages   being served?   If so, are OLCC     requirements being
          met?

M. Expiration of Approval: Land use approvals for home occupations to host
   commercial events shall not be valid for more than four years from the original date
   of approval. Landowners must reapply for the use after a land use approval expires.

                                                                     Chapter 20, Site Plan Review

                                    [3009-207                            BS LET