FILEO
                                                                          WASCO COUNTY

                                                                         200 JAN-7   P FU

                                                                         AREN LEBRETON COATS
                                                                     .       COUNTY CLERK

                     IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                             IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO

     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY PLANNING
     & DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT'S REQUEST TO
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED LEGISLATIVE
     AMENDMENTS TO UPDATE THE WASCO COUNTY
     NATIONAL SCENIC AREA LAND USE AND                      ORDINANCE
     DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE TO CREATE                        No. 10-001
     CONSISTENCY WITH UPDATES TO THE
     MANAGEMENT PLAN OF THE COLUMBIA RIVER
     GORGE NATIONAL SCENIC AREA AND MAKE OTHER
     AMENDMENTS APPROPRIATE FOR WASCO COUNTY
     (FILE NUMBER PLALEG-09-06-0001)

            NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

     consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business

     and a majority of the Commission being present; and

           WHEREAS, the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic

     Area was amended in June of 2007 and the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land

     Use and Development Ordinance is required to be consistent with the Management

     Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.     The Wasco County Planning

     & Development Department therefore requested to initiate a legislative text amendment

10   to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance to

                                                  20100020
     Page 1 - ORDINANCE
     create consistency with the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National

     Scenic Area and make other amendments appropriate for Wasco County;

           WHEREAS, The Wasco County Planning          & Development Department was

     directed by the Wasco County Court on July 1, 2009 pursuant to Section 9.020(A) of the

     Wasco County Land Use & Development Ordinance to initiate a legislative text

     amendment to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and Development

     Ordinance to create consistency with the Management Plan for the Columbia River

     Gorge National Scenic Area and make other amendments appropriate for Wasco

     County; and

10         WHEREAS, That on November 1, 2009 the Wasco County Planning &

ll   Development Department sent notification to all property owners in the unincorporated

12   portion of Wasco County within the National Scenic Area of the Planning Commission

13   hearing scheduled for December 1, 2009; and

14         WHEREAS:      That on December 1, 2009, the Wasco County Planning

15   Commission met to conduct a legally notified public hearing on the above matter.   The

16   Commission reviewed the record, heard the Staff recommendation and all relevant

17   testimony from parties, deliberated and voted (5-0) to elevate the request for a

18   legislative amendment to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and

19   Development Ordinance with a recommendation of approval to the Wasco County

20   Board of County Commissioners with additional amendments; and

21          WHEREAS, That on December 15, 2009 the Wasco County Planning &

22   Development Department sent notification to any person or group or their representative

23   who submitted written comments, requested in writing to receive notification, or signed

     Page 2 - ORDINANCE

                                                       96100016
     in and testified at the Planning Commission hearing of the Board of County

     Commissioners hearing scheduled for January 6, 2010; and

            WHEREAS:     That on January 6, 2010   at the hour of 10:00 a.m. in the Wasco

     County Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse the Wasco County

     Board of County Commissioners met to conduct a legally notified public hearing on the

     above matter. The Board of County Commissioners reviewed the record, heard the

     Planning Commission recommendation and Staff recommendation and all relevant

     testimony from the parties, deliberated and, on a vote of 3 — 0 approved the

     recommendation by the Wasco County Planning Commission on the above matter as

10   laid out in Attachment A; and

ll          NOW THEREFORE        IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:        That the request by the Wasco

12   County Planning & Development Department for a legislative text amendment to the

13   National Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance to create consistency with

14   the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area and make

15   other amendments appropriate for Wasco County is hereby approved; and

16         WHEREAS:      Pursuant to Section 9.090 of the Wasco County National Scenic

17   Area Land Use and Development Ordinance and 16 U.S.C. § 544e(7)(b) & (8)(i) & (j),

18   all General Management Plan Ordinance amendments shall require review and

19   approval by the Gorge Commission before they can be implemented and all Special

20   Management Area Ordinance amendments require concurrence by the US Secretary of

21   Agriculture before they can be implemented.    The Board of County Commissioners

22   approved amendments are hereby transmitted to the Gorge Commission for their review

23   of the General Management Area Ordinance amendments and the US ‘Secretary of

                                                            26100020
     Page 3 - ORDINANCE
Agriculture’s review of the Special Management Area Ordinance amendments.         If the

General Management Area Ordinance amendments are approved by the Gorge

Commission and the Specia] Management Area Ordinance amendments are concurred

with by the US Secretary of Agriculture, the amendments will be become effective on

the date of concurrence by the US Secretary of Agriculture if later than the date of

approval of the Gorge Commission.

       SIGNED this 6th day of January, 2010

Approved as to Form:
                         .                     WASCO COUNTY BOARD OF
      eo         OL                            COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

Eric J. Nisley
Wasco County District Attorney

                                                 SLs         Wha
                                               Sherry HoliWay, Commissioner

                                               Bill Lennox, Commissioner\.

Page 4 - ORDINANCE                                            sc19ce 46
                               ATTACHMENT A
                              PLALEG-09-06-0001

     Final Updated Versions of the Following Chapters of the
                         National Scenic Area
                 Land Use and Development Ordinance

Title Page

Chapter 1 - Definitions

Chapter 2 - Development Approval Procedures

Chapter 4 - Supplemental Provisions

Chapter 5 - Conditional Use Review

Chapter 8 - Temporary Use Permit

Chapter 9 - Zone Change & Ordinance Amendment

Chapter 10 - Resource Enhancement Projects, Disposal Sites, And Mineral And
              Aggregate Review

Chapter 13 - Nonconforming Uses

Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review

Chapter 15 - Administration and Enforcement

Chapter 16 - Emergency/Disaster Response Actions

Chapter 20 - Site Plan Review

Chapter 21 - Land Divisions

                                                      ot1e0ore
               NATIONAL SCENIC AREA

   LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE

                        Adopted
                        May 1994

                     Effective
                    July 1994
   GMA -3 October 2005 SMA-             10 January 2006
                    9 December 2006
                       25 July 2007
                     XXX XXXX           2010

                     Prepared by the

WASCO   COUNTY PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT OFFICE

                             STAFF
          Todd R. Cornett            Planning Director
           A. Gary Nychyk            Senior Planner
          Brenda Jenkins             Planning Coordinator
             Dawn M. Baird           Associate Planner
        Jeanette Montour             Associate Planner
            Benjamin Hoey            Planning Assistant
          Keith Cleveland            Code Compliance Officer

                                               25106020
                  DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

          CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SECTION                                                              PAGE
1.010     AUTHORITY                                                  1-1
1.020     TITLE                                                      1-1
1.030     PURPOSE                                                    1-1
1.040     SEVERABILITY                                               1-1
1.050     REPEAL                                                     1-2
1.060     EFFECTIVE DATE                                             1-2
1.070     INTERPRETATION AND SCOPE                                   1-2
1.080     COMPLIANCE REQUIRED                                        1-3
1.090     SPECIAL RULE (SMA Only)                                    1-4
1.100     EDITORIAL REVISION                                         1-4
1.200     DEFINITIONS                                                1-5

                          20100010
                                               Chapter 1ntroductory Provisions
                                                                                           Page 1-1

                     CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

SECTION 1.010 Authority

This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes
Chapters 92, 197, 203, and 215, and Public Law 99-663, Section 7.

SECTION 1.020 Title

This Ordinance shall be known as the National Scenic Area Land Use and Development
Ordinance for Wasco County.

SECTION 1.030     Purpose

The purposes of this Ordinance are: To promote public health, safety, convenience, and
general welfare; to reduce congestion upon the streets and highways; to prevent
excessive population density and the overcrowding      of land; to provide for adequate air
and light; to conserve natural resources and encourage the orderly growth of the County;
to promote safety from fire and natural disaster; to assist in rendering adequate police
and ‘fire protection; to facilitate adequate and economic provision for public
improvements, for recreation areas, and for public utilities and services; to conserve,
stabilize, and protect property values; and to encourage the most appropriate use of land,
all in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan for Wasco County and the Management
Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

SECTION 1.040 Severability

The provisions of this Ordinance are severable.         If any section, sentence, clause, or
phrase of this Ordinance is adjudged to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance. The
Director, the Director's designee or other Approving Authority shall not approve a
development or use of land that has been previously divided or otherwise developed in
violation of this Ordinance, regardless of whether the applicant or created the violation,
unless the violation can be rectified as part of the development proposal.

                                                   96100020
                                                                  Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                    XK, OCXX. 2010
Page 1-2

SECTION 1.050           Repeal

The following ordinances, together with all amendments thereto are hereby repealed:

"Wasco County Zoning Ordinance", adopted February 3, 1982.
"Wasco County Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance", adopted February 3,
1982.
"Wasco County Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Park Ordinance”.
"Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance adopted June 1985, amended
July 19, 1989" only for that portion of Wasco County within the Columbia River Gorge
National Scenic Area as depicted on the map entitled “Boundary Map, Columbia River
Gorge National Scenic Area", numbered NSA-001, sheet 1 and 2, and dated September
1986.
“Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance”, adopted
May 1994, Revised July 1994.

SECTION 1.060           Effective Date

This Ordinance shall become effective when the final draft, approved by the Gorge
Commission and the Secretary of Agriculture, is reviewed and approved by the Wasco
County Court and filed with the Wasco County Clerk. Amendments hereto, unless
otherwise specified, shall become effective when filed with the County Clerk.

SECTION 1.070           Interpretation and Scope

Interpretation: The provisions of this Ordinance shall be liberally construed to effect the
purpose.     These provisions are declared to be the minimum requirements to fuifill
objectives.    When conditions herein imposed are less restrictive than comparative
provisions imposed by any other provision of this Ordinance by resolution of State Law or
State Administration regulations, or Management Plan Guidelines, then the more
restrictive shall govern.

Scope:       This Ordinance         is enacted   to regulate and   restrict the location and   use of
buildings, structures, and land for residence, trade, industry, and other land use activities;
to regulate and limit the height, number of stories, and size of buildings and other
structures hereafter erected or altered; to regulate and limit the density of population and
to divide Wasco County into districts or zones of such number, shape and area as may
be. deemed best to carry out these regulations and to provide for the enforcement of
these regulations.

                                                                       2 0 1 0 0 0 b | 0
Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
XX, XXKXK 2010
                                                                                                 Page 1-3

SECTION     1.080   Compliance Required                                                  5

No structure or premises in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area portion of
Wasco County shall hereafter be used or occupied and no part or structure or part thereof
shall be erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered contrary to the
provisions of this Ordinance.

A.   This Ordinance shall protect treaty and other rights of Indian tribes.          Nothing in this
     Ordinance may interfere with the exercise of those rights.

B. Lands held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior for Indian tribes or for individual
   members of Indian tribes, and lands acquired by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
   and administered by the Secretary of the Interior for the benefit of indian tribes or of
   individual members of Indian tribes, shall be exempt from regulation under the
   Management Plan or this Ordinance. This exemption shall extend to lands selected
   by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as "in lieu" fishing sites pursuant to Public Law
   11-581 before or after the effective date of the Management Plan. For those "in lieu"
   sites chosen after the effective date of the Management Plan, the exemption shall
   commence upon selection by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

C.   Rights to surface or ground water        shall    be   exempt   from   regulation       under   the
     Management Plan or this Ordinance.

D.    Water transportation activities, including those facilities necessary for navigation, on
     the Columbia River or its tributaries shall be exempt from regulation under the
     Management Plan or this Ordinance.

E. The operation, maintenance, and modification of existing transmission facilities of the
    Bonneville Power Administration shall be exempt from regulation under the
    Management Plan or this Ordinance.

F. Neither the Management Plan nor this Ordinance may affect laws, rules or regulations
   pertaining to hunting or fishing.

G. This Ordinance shall not establish any buffer zone or protective perimeters outside the
    boundaries of the Scenic Area.

H. The operation, maintenance, and improvement of navigation facilities at Bonneville
   Dam pursuant to federal law, except for the off-site disposal of excavation material,
   shall be exempt from regulation under the Management Plan or this Ordinance.

|.   In the GMA, the rights and responsibilities of non-federal timber landowners under the
     Forest Practices Acts of Oregon,        shall    be    exempt   from   regulation       under   the
     Management Plan or this Ordinance.                 .      .

                                              20100010
                                                                        Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                           XX, OOK, 2010
Page 1-4

SECTION 1.090 Special Rule (SMA Only)

Parcels in the SMA with a GMA designation result from the Section 8(0) process
whereby the Forest Service designated properties as either GMA Forest Land or GMA
Agriculture Land guidelines or designation.

SECTION 1.100 Editorial Revision

Editorial revision will be in compliance with the following procedures. The District Attorney
may at any time direct such changes regarding currently maintained copies of this
Ordinance and amendments as the Legislative Council is authorized to perform regarding
acts of the Legislature, pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute 173.160, provided that such
editorial revisions be directed by written memorandum filed with the County Clerk and
with the Planning Department, but subject to disapproval by the Planning Commission at
next regular meeting thereafter.        Editorial revisions shall become effective, unless
disapproved by the Planning Commission, on the first regular meeting of the Planning
Commission after the directing memorandum is filed with the County Clerk. All such
revisions must be submitted to the Gorge Commission and Forest Service for approval
prior to becoming effective.

Chapter 1-4Introductory Provisions
                                                            99100010
XX, XXXX 2010
SECTION    1.200      Definitions

For the purpose of this Ordinance, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include
the plural, and words in the plural include the singular.

Abandoned WECS - A WECS that does not generate energy during a period of twelve
(12) consecutive months for reasons other than lack of wind, lack of demand for the
electricity produced, repair, or modernization.

Accepted Agricultural Practice - A mode of operation that is common to farms or
ranches of similar nature, necessary for the operation of such farms or ranches to obtain
a profit in money and customarily utilized in conjunction with agricultural use.

Access    - A way or means          of approach to provide pedestrian,          bicycle, and/or motor
vehicular entrances or exits to a property. Includes driveways and private accesses.

Access easement - An easement recorded for the purpose of providing vehicle, bicycle,
and/or pedestrian access from a public or private road to a parcel across intervening
property under separate ownership from the parcel being provided access.                      See Private
Easement Road.

Accessory structure/building - A structure or detached building whose use is
incidental and subordinate to that of the main use of the property, and that is located on
the same parcel as the main building or use. The term “detached” means that the main
building and accessory building do not share a common wall. An accessory building
connected to the main building by a breezeway is a detached building.

Accessory Use - A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the primary use and
located on the same legal parcel.

Active Wildlife Site - A wildlife site that has been        used within the past 5 years by a
sensitive wildlife species.

Addition - An extension or increase in the area or height of an existing building.

Agency Official - The federal, state, or local agency head or designee who has authority
over a proposed project.

Agricultural   Land     - Means     lands classified by the US    Natural    Resource Conservation
Service as predominantly Class I-VI in Eastern Oregon; land in other soil classes that is
suitable for farm     use as defined    in ORS   215.203 taking    into consideration soil fertility;
suitability for grazing; climatic conditions; existing and future availability of water for farm
irrigation purposes; existing land use patterns; technological and energy inputs required;

                                                   20   4 0 0 010           Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                              XX, XXX    2010
Page 1-6

and accepted farming practices; land that is necessary to permit farm practices to be
undertaken on adjacent or nearby agricultural lands; and land in capability classes other
than | - VI that is adjacent to or intermingled with lands in capability classes | - VI within a
farm unit shall be inventoried as agricultural lands even though this land may not be
cropped or grazed. Agricultural land does not include land within acknowledged urban
growth boundaries or land within acknowledged exception areas for Goal 3 or 4.

Agricultural        Purposes        - The     predominant        and gainful      use of land for the following
purposes:          the growing      of hay,    grain,    seed,    row   crops,     horticuitural   crops,   livestock,
poultry and produce.

Agricultural specialist (SMA)                 - A person such as a county extension agent with a
demonstrated knowledge of farming operations, and a demonstrated ability to interpret
and recommend methods to implement regulations pertaining to agriculture.       Such
abilities    are     usually     obtained      through      a     combination       of   higher    education      and
experience.

Agricultural structure/building - A structure or building located on a farm or ranch and
used in the operation for the storage, repair and maintenance of farm equipment, and
supplies or for the raising and/or storage of crops and livestock. These include, but are
not limited to: Bams,          silos, workshops,        equipment sheds, greenhouses, wind                  machines
(orchards), processing facilities, storage bins and structures.

Agricultural Use - The current employment of land for the primary purpose of obtaining a
profit in money by raising, harvesting and selling of crops or by the feeding, breeding,
management and sale of, or production of, livestock, poultry, fur-bearing animals or
honeybees or for dairying and the sale of dairy products or any other agricultural or
horticultural use, or animal husbandry or any combination thereof, including Christmas
trees, as defined by Oregon Revised Statute 215.203(3). Current employment of land for
agricultural use includes:

a. The operation          or use      of farmland        subject to any          agriculture-related    government
   program;

b.   Land lying fallow for 1 year as a normal and regular requirement of good agricultural
     husbandry;

c.   Land pianted in orchards or other perennial prior to maturity, and

d. Land under buildings supporting accepted agricultural practices.                          Current employment
   does not include livestock feed lots.

Agricultural use does not include livestock feedlots.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                                        9 Q 1 0 0 0 { 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                            Page 1-7

All Weather Road - A road that has, depending upon design criteria, a six [to eight] or
more inches of gravel base, smooth surface, that a two wheel drive vehicle can use all
year round. Confirmation of “all weather” to be made by the Wasco County Public Works
Department.

Alley - A secondary means of access to abutting property, if dedicated as a public way.

Altered - A change, addition, or modification in structure; where the term "altered" is used
in connection with a change of occupancy, it is intended to apply to changes of
occupancy from one trade or use to another, or from one division or use to another.

Anadromous fish - Species of fish that migrate upstream to freshwater after spending
part of their life in the ocean (saltwater).

Anaerobic - A condition in which molecular oxygen is absent (or effectively so) from the
environment.

Apartment - A building or portion thereof designed for residential use and containing
three or more dwelling units.

Apartment House - Three or more household units with walls or ceilings common                     to
another unit.                                              ;

Approach Road — That portion of any access, driveway or other facility that immediately
abuts upon a public or county road and provides ingress to or egress from said public or
county road.

Approving Authority - The County Governing Body or the body designated                     by the
County Governing Body to administer all or part of this ordinance.

Arterial Road or Street - A road or street used primarily. to carry high levels of regional
vehicular traffic at high speeds; connects the collector road system to freeways;
provides connection to other cities and communities; serves major traffic movements;
access control may be provided through medians and/or channelization. The typical
average daily traffic exceeds 2,000.

Aquaculture - The cultivation, maintenance and harvesting of aquatic species.

Aquatic area - The water area of a stream, pond, or lake measured at the ordinary high
water mark.

Archaeological resources - See cultural resource.

Archival research - Research      in primary documents that is likely to yield information

                                          80   1 0 00   1 0        Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                     XX, XXXX. 2016
Page 1-8

regarding human occupation of the area in question, including but not limited to deed,
census, cartographic, and judicial records.

Automobile and Trailer Sales Area - An open area, other than a street, used for the
display, sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers and where no repair work
is done except minor incidental repair of motor vehicles or trailers to be displayed, sold or
rented on the premises.

Automobile Repair Garage - A building or portion thereof used for the care and repair of
motor vehicles or where such vehicles are parked or stored for compensation, hire or
sale.

Automobile Service Station - Any premises used for supplying gasoline, oil, minor
accessories, and services, excluding body and fender repair for automobiles at retail
direct to the customer.

Automobile Wrecking                 Yard - Any property where more than two vehicles, including
Recreational Vehicles               not licensed or operable, or parts thereof, are:  wrecked,
dismantled, disassembled, or substantially altered and are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation; or any land, building, or structure used for wrecking or storing
of such motor vehicles or parts thereof for a period exceeding three (3) months in any
non-consecutive 12 month period.

Awning - An awning is defined as any accessory shade structure supported by posts or
columns and partially supported by a mobile home.

Basement - A portion of a building, partly underground, which is less than one-half of its
height measured from finished floor to finished ceiling above the average grade of the
adjoining ground, and not deemed a story unless the ceiling is six (6) feet or more above
the ground.

Batch Plant, Concrete or Asphalt - Means the storage, preparation, and manufacturing
of concrete or asphait including customary equipment and accessory buildings.                 Also
called Redi-Mix plant.

Bed and Breakfast Inn - A single-family dwelling where lodging and a moming meal for
guests only are offered for compensation, having no more than five (5) sleeping rooms for
this purpose. Rooms shall be rented on a daily basis. An establishment where more
than one (1) meal per day is offered shall not be deemed a bed and breakfast inn. An
establishment with more than five (5) sleeping rooms shall be deemed a hotel. Bed and
breakfast inns are clearly incidental to the use of a structure as a single-family dwelling
and are owner occupied and operated. Bed and breakfast inns operate as transient
accommodations, not as rooming or boarding houses.

Chapter    Snroductory Provisions                                          2 0 1 0 0 1) q 0
                                                                                                 Page 1-9

Best management           practices - Conservation techniques and management                 measures
that:

a. control soil loss and reduce water quality degradation            caused by nutrients, animal
    waste, toxins, and sediment; and

b. minimize     adverse    affects to groundwater     and    surface-water flow and          circulation
    patterns; and

c. maintain    the chemical,    biological, and   physical characteristics of wetlands,          ponds,
    steams, and riparian areas.

Bikeway - Any road, path, or way that is in some manner specifically open to bicycle
travel, regardless of whether such facilities are designated for the exclusive use of
bicycles or are shared with other transportation modes.

Bike Lane - A defined portion of the roadway which has been designated by striping,
signing and pavement markings for the preferential or exclusive use of bicyclists.

Bio-diversity (SMA) - A diversity         of biological     organisms      at the genetic,     species,
ecosystem, and landscape levels.

Blade - An element of a WECS rotor which forms an aerodynamic surface or surfaces to
convert movement of air into mechanical energy or torque.

Block - An area of land within a subdivision which area may be entirely bounded by
streets, highways or ways (except alleys), and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision.

Boarding      House   - A building or premise       where    meals   and    lodging   are offered for
compensation     for three (3) or more    persons    but not more than        nine (9) persons;     and
having no more than five (5) sleeping rooms for this purpose. An establishment where
meals are served for compensation for more than nine (9) persons shall be deemed a
restaurant. An establishment with more than five (5) sleeping rooms shall be deemed a
hotel.

Boat Landing - Cleared         area or developed      structure used to facilitate launching           or
retrieving watercraft.

Buffer Zone - An area adjacent to a wetland, stream, pond, or other sensitive area that is
established and managed to protect sensitive natural resources from human disturbance.
In instances that involve a wetland, stream, or pond, the buffer zone includes all or a
portion of the riparian area.

                                                    20400020
                                                                           Chapter Tetra         ee
Page 1-10

Building - Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or
occupancy. Buildings have a roof supported by columns or walls. They include, but are
not limited to, dwellings, garages, barns, sheds and shop buildings.

Building Line - A line on a plat indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures
may not be erected.

Business - Employment of one or more persons for the purpose of eaming a livelihood or
a profit in money.

Cabana - A room enclosure erected or constructed adjacent to a mobile home for use as
an addition to a mobile home.

Camp, Campground, Tourist, or Trailer Park - Any area or tract of land used                   or
designed to accommodate two or more camping outfits, including cabins.

Campsite - Single camping unit, usually consisting of a cleared, level area for a tent, and
may include a parking spur, fire ring, table and other amenities.

Canopy closure (SMA) - For forest practices, the percentage measuring the degree to
which one layer of a tree canopy blocks sunlight or obscures the sky as measured from
below.

Capability - The ability of land to produce forest or agricultural products due               to
characteristics of the land itself, such as soil, slope, exposure or other natural factors.

Carport - A covered shelter for an automobile open on two or more sides.        A carport may
be freestanding or partially supported by a dwelling unit or mobile home.

Cascadian Architecture - Architectural style using native rock work, large timber and
steeply pitched roofs in a rustic manner.

Catastrophic Situations (SMA) - Forces such as fire, insect and disease infestations
and earth movements.

Cellar - A story having more than one-half of its height below the average level of the
adjoining ground and which has less than six (6) feet of its height above the average level
of the adjoining ground.

Cemetery - Land dedicated for burial purposes, including mortuary, crematory,
mausoleum, and columbarium, when operated within the boundary of the cemetery.

Child Care Center - A facility providing day care to three or more children, but not
including:

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                    99100020
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                               Page 1-11

a. The provision of care that is primarily educational unless provided to a preschool child
     - for more than 4 hours a day;

b. The provision of care that is primarily supervised training in a specific subject,
   including but not limited to dancing, gymnastics, drama, music or religion;

c.    Provision of short term care associated with group or social activities.

d. The provision of day care in the provider's home in the family living quarters for less
   than 13 children.

Church - A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where persons
regularly assemble for public worship, and which building, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship.

 Class | Stream - Waters which are valuable for domestic use, are important for angling or
 other recreation, and/or used by significant numbers of fish for spawning, rearing, or
 migration routes as designated by the Oregon Department of Forestry. Stream flows may
.be perennial or intermittent.

Class Il Stream - Any headwater streams or minor drainages that generally have limited
or no direct value for angling or other recreation as designated by the Oregon Department
of Forestry. They are used by only a few, if any, fish for spawning or rearing. Their
principal value is their influence on water quality or quantity downstream in Class | waters.
 Stream flow may be perennial or intermittent.

Clinic - Single or multiple offices for physicians, surgeons, dentists, chiropractors,
osteopaths, and other members of the healing arts, including a pharmacy in any such
building.

Club or Lodge - A building and facilities owned and operated for a social or recreational
purpose, to which membership is required for participation, but is not operated primarily
for profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.        A club does
not include a public rehabilitation facility of any kind.

Collector Road or Street (Major) - A road used primarily to serve traffic between
neighborhoods and community facilities; principal carrier between arterials and local
roads; provides some degree of access to adjacent properties, while maintaining
circulation and mobility for all users; carries lower traffic volumes at slower speeds than
arterials; typically has two or three lanes; bicycle facilities may be exclusive or shared
roadways depending on traffic volumes, speeds, and extent of bicycle travel. The
typical average daily traffic ranges from 500 to 2,000.

                                               2 0 1 0 0 0 4 0         Chapter 1-introductory Provisions
                                                                                          XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-12

Collector Road or Street (Minor) - A road used primarily to connect rural residential
areas with arterials and major collector roads; has slower speeds to enhance safety;
bicycle facilities may be exclusive or shared roadways depending on traffic volumes,
speeds, and extent of bicycle travel. The typical average daily traffic ranges from 250
to 400.

Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Graphic Signing System - Sign design
standards developed for the Scenic Area for public signs in and adjacent to public road
rights-of-way.

Commercial Development/Use - Any facility or use of land or water whose function is
primarily retail buying or selling of goods or services or both. This does not include fruit or
produce stands.

Commercial Forest Products - These include timber for lumber, pulp, and fire wood for
commercial purposes.
Commercial         Recreation - Any private (non-governmental) recreational activity or facility
on privately owned land, excluding non-profit facilities. This does not include operation of
a public recreation facility by a private vendor.

Commercial Utility Facility - Any energy facility or commercial energy facility.

Common Area - Any area or space designed for joint use of tenants.

Communication Facility - A facility constructed for the purpose of transmitting telegraph,
telephone, microwave, television, radio, and other similar signals.

Community Center or Hall - A building and facilities owned and operated by a
govemmental agency or non-profit community organization whose membership is open to
any resident of the community in which the center or hall is located.
Community Facility - Basic utilities and services necessary to support public service
needs, including, but not limited to water and power utilities, sanitation facilities, public
micro-wave stations and communications facilities, schools, roads and highways. This
does not include sanitary landfills.                                            ;

Community Management - The person who owns or has charge, care or control of the
mobile home development.

Community Sanitary-Sewer System - A public or private system of underground pipes
of sufficient capacity to carry domestic sewage from an area to connected treatment and
disposal facilities, as approved by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality.

Community          Water-Supply     System   - A       public   or private   system   of underground

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                  :                  9 0 1 0 Q 0 i 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                          Page 1-13

distribution pipes providing a continuous supply of potable water from a center source in
quantities sufficient to meet domestic and fire protection needs for three (3) or more
dwellings, as approved by the State of Oregon Department of Human Resources, Health
Division.

Comprehensive Plan - The generalized, coordinated land use map and policy statement
of the goveming body of Wasco County that interrelates all functional and natural
systems and activities relative to the use of lands including, but not limited to sewer and
water systems, transportation systems, educational systems, recreational facilities, and
natural resources and air and water quality management programs.

Condominium - Property, any part of which is residential in nature,              submitted     and
approved in accordance with the provisions of ORS 100.005 to 100.910.

Conduit - Any tunnel, canal, pipeline, aqueduct, flume, ditch or similar man-made water
conveyance.

Consultant Engineer - A professional engineer, registered in the State of Oregon, who is
retained by and responsible to an applicant for the design and construction of
subdivisions and required public or private improvements. Although a Civil Engineer is
preferable, any engineer who is qualified to perform the work involved, and so certified,
may be a consultant engineer.

Consulting Parties (cultural resources) - Organizations or individuals who submit
substantive written comments to a local government in a timely manner because they are
concerned with the effects of a proposed use on cultural resources.

Contiguous Land - Parcels or other lands that are under the same ownership and have
a common boundary, regardless of whether or not portions of the parcels have separate
tax lot numbers, lie in different counties, lie in different sections or government lots, lie in
different land   use or zoning   designations   or are separated   by public or private roads.
Contiguous land does not include parcels which meet only at a single point.

Corner Lot - A lot at least two adjacent sides of which abut streets other than alleys,
provided the angle of intersection of the adjacent street does not exceed 135 degrees.

Corridor - The length and width of a right-of-way or tenancy containing or intended for a
transmission facility and other uses in, or intended for, the same right-of-way.

County - The County of Wasco, Oregon.

County Governing Body - The County Governing Body of Wasco County, Oregon.

County Road - A public road which has been designated as a county road and formally

                                            2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0          Chapter srtrodutor Provisions
                                                                                     XX, XXXX. 2010
 Page 1-14

 accepted for maintenance by the Wasco County Governing Body.                              A county road shall
 not act as a dividing feature of a lot-of-record.

 County Road District — For purposes of improving county roads or public roads within
 the boundaries of a city or drainage district, county road districts may be formed from
 contiguous territory within the county. All road improvements are initiated through a
 petition process approved by the County Governing Body. To fund the road
 improvements, county road districts may assess, levy and collect taxes on all taxable
 property within the district. See ORS 371.055.

 Court - An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a. building
 and bounded on two sides by such building.

’ Court Apartment - Orie to four multiple dwellings arranged around two or three sides of a
 court which opens into a street.

 Cross       Access     - A service drive providing             vehicular access       between       two   or more
 separate sites, so that the driver need not enter the public street system between sites.

 Created Opening - A created forest opening with less than 40 percent average canopy
 closure of overstory trees and less than 60 percent average canopy closure of
 understory trees averaging less than 5 inches diameter at breast height for coniferous
 forests and less than 25 percent total canopy cover for oak woodlands. This definition
 does not include agricultural fields.

 Creation (wetlands) - A human activity that converts an upland into a wetland.                                This
 definition presumes that the area to be converted has not been a wetland in recent times
 (100 to 200 years).

 Cul-De-Sac - A street with only one outlet having sufficient space at the closed end to
 provide a vehicular turning area.

 Cultivation - Any activity that prepares land for raising crops by turning, breaking, or
 loosening the soil. Cultivation includes plowing, harrowing, leveling, and tilling.

 Cultural Resource - Evidence of human occupation or activity that is important in the
 history, architecture, archaeology or culture of a community or region. Cultural resources
 include, but are not limited to, the following:

     --Archaeological resources.      Physical evidence or ruins of human occupation or
     activity located on or below the surface of the ground that are at least 50 years old.
     Archaeological        resources     include,   but   are    not   limited   to, the   remains     of houses,
     villages, camp and fishing sites and cave shelters; rock art such as petroglyphs and
     pictographs; artifacts such as arrowheads, utensils, tools, fragments of tools and

 Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions   ©                                   20190020
 XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                              Page 1-15

   utensils, obsidian flakes or other material by-products from tool and utensil making
   activities; and graves, human remains and associated artifacts.

   -Historic   buildings    and   structures.    Standing    or above-ground        buildings      and
   structures that are at least 50 years old.   Historic buildings and structures include, but
   are not limited to, log cabins, barns, canals, flumes, pipelines, highways and tunnels.

   --Traditional cultural properties. Locations, buildings, structures, and objects that
   are associated with cultural beliefs, customs or practices of a living community that are
   rooted in that community's history and are important in maintaining the continuing
   cultural identity of the community.

   Traditional cultural properties include, but are not limited to, a location associated with
   the traditional beliefs of a Native American group about its origins or its cultural history;
   a location where a community has traditionally carried out artistic or other cultural
   practices important in maintaining its historical identity; and a location where Native
   American religious practitioners have historically gone, and go today, to perform
   ceremonial activities. Objects may include petroglyphs, pictographs, rock cairns or
   other rock structures, trees and rock outcrops.

Cumulative Effects - The combined effects of two or more. activities. The effects may be
related to the number of individual activities, or to the number of repeated activities on the
same piece of ground.           Cumulative effects can result from individually minor but
collectively significant actions taking place over a period of time.

Curb Line - The line dividing the roadway from the planting strip or footway.

Cut - an area where        soil or earth   are excavated    or removed      in conjunction        with
development activities.

Dam - Any man-made structure that impounds water.

Day Nursery - Any institution, establishment or place, other than a group day care home,
in which   are commonly    received   at one time, three    or more   children    not of common
parentage, under the age of six years, for a period or periods not exceeding twelve hours,
for the purpose of being given board, care or training apart from their parents or
guardians for compensation or reward.

Dedicated Site - Area actively devoted to the current use and as delineated on the site
plan.

Deer and Elk Winter Range - Areas normally used, or capable of being used, by deer
and elk from December through April.

                                                 20100010
                                                                      Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                        XX, HOCK 2010
Page 1-16

Design - The description, either written or graphic, of any street or alley alignments,
grade or width, alignment of width of easements and rights-of-way for drainage or
irrigation purposes and sanitary facilities, and lot area, width or tayout.

Destruction of Wetlands - Loss of the wetlands or any of its component parts, including
the filling, draining, or other adverse effect to the sustainable functioning of the wetland.

Developed Recreation - Recreational opportunities characterized by high-density use on
specific sites and requiring facilities installation. Density of use, amount of site
development, and type of recreation site can vary widely across the spectrum of
recreation activities.
Developed road prism (SMA) - The area of the ground associated with a particular
road        and   containing    the   road   surface,   ditch,   shoulder,   retaining   walls,   or   other
developed features.            Does   not include the natural appearing         portions of cut and fill
slopes.

Development - Any land division, structure, including but not limited to new construction
of buildings and structures, and mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, and excavation.

Developer - A subdivider, or if not creating a subdivision, a person who proposes to, or
does develop the land, whether it be for public or private purposes.

Diameter at Breast Height (dbh) - Refers to the diameter of a tree as measured                            at
breast height.

Diversion - Any structure that deflects a portion of the water from a stream channel.

Dock - A structure built over or floating upon the water and used as a landing place for
boats and other marine transport, fishing, swimming, and other recreational uses.

Double Frontage Lot - A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately parallel
streets.

Drive-In - A business establishment so developed that its retail or service character is
dependent on providing a driveway approach for parking space for motor vehicles so as
to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle, or within a building on the same premises and
devoted to the same purpose as the drive-in service.

The term drive-in shall include any business establishment dispensing food or drink on a
self-service basis and for consumption outside the building.

Driveway - A private access providing ingress and egress to and from within a single
property, or portion of a single property to a public road, private road or private
easement road.

Chapter 4-Introductory Provisions                                     2 9 1 00 01 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                            Page 1-17

Driveway, Shared - When land uses on two or more lots or parcels share one driveway.
A   Private   Easement      Road   must      be    created   for any     new   shared       driveway       crossing
another property.

Duplex - A building containing two dwelling units and designed for occupancy by two
families.

Dwelling, Single Family - A detached building containing one dwelling unit and designed
for occupancy by one family only.

Dwelling Unit - A single unit designed for occupancy by one family and having not more
than one cooking area or kitchen.
Earth materials - Any rock, natural soil or any combination thereof. Earth materials do
not include non-earth or processed materials, including, but not limited to, construction
debris (e.g., concrete, asphalt, wood), organic waste (e.g., cull fruit, food waste) and
industrial byproducts (e.g., slag, wood waste).

Easement - A grant of the right to use a strip of land for specific purposes.                       Includes but
is not limited to access easements and utility easements.

Effect on Treaty Rights - To bring about a change in, to influence, to modify, or to have
a consequence to indian treaty or treaty related rights in the Treaties of 1855 with the Nez
Perce,   Umatilla,   Warm     Springs     and      Yakima    tribes,   executed     between       the     individual
Indian tribes and the Congress of the United States and as adjudicated by the Federal
courts.

Emergency/disaster - A sudden unexpected occurrence, either the result of human or
natural forces, necessitating immediate action to prevent or mitigate significant loss or
damage to life, health, property, essential public services, or the environment.

Emergency/disaster response - Actions involving any development (such as new
structures, grading, or excavation) or vegetation removal that must be taken
immediately     in   response      to   an        emergency/disaster       event      (as    defined        above).
Emergency/disaster response actions not involving any structural development or
ground-disturbance (such as use of emergency transport vehicles, communications
activities or traffic control measures) are not included in this definition and are not
affected by these provisions.

Endangered and Threatened Species - Those species of plants and animals listed or
proposed for listing as of October 1, 1978, in 41 FED REG 24524. (June 16, 1976) and
50 CFR Part 17, and its amendments and species listed or proposed for listing by the
State of Oregon.

                                                               20100010
                                                                                   Chapter 14Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                        XX, OCG 2010
Page 1-18

Endemic - Plant and animal species that are found only in the vicinityof the Columbia
River Gorge area.

The Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area lists Columbia
Gorge and vicinity endemic plant species in Table 7.

Enhancement           (natural      resources)    - A human        activity that increases     one   or more
functions     of an existing        wetland,   stream,   lake,   riparian   area,   or other sensitive area.
Enhancement is generally limited to a wetland, stream, lake, riparian area, or other
sensitive area that is degraded. Enhancing an area that is in good or excellent condition
may reduce biological diversity and eliminate other natural functions and may not be
desirable.

Ephemeral streams (SMA) - streams that contain flowing water only during, and for a
short duration after, precipitation events.

Ethnography - The descriptive and analytic study of the culture of particular groups. An
ethnographer seeks to understand a group through interviews with its members and often
through living in and observing it.

Existing Use or Structure - Any use or structure that was legally established. "Legally
established" means:

a. the landowner or developer obtained applicable land use and building permits and
   complied with land use regulations and other laws that were in effect at the time the
   use or structure was established, or that were in effect at the time the landowner or
   developer corrected an improperly established use or structure; and

b. the use or structure was initially operated or constructed according to those
   applicable permits, land use regulations and other laws, or has been operated or
   constructed according to permits obtained to correct an improperly established use
     or structure; and

c.   any changes to the original use or structure must comply with all applicable permit
     requirements, land use regulations and other laws that were in effect at the time the
     change was established.

Expando - Room or rooms that fold, collapse, or telescope into a mobile home.

Exploration, Development (extraction and excavation) and Production of Mineral
Resources - Includes all or any part of the process of surface, underground or
submerged mining of mineral resources. Minerals include soil, coal, clay, stone, sand,
gravel, metallic ore, oil and gases and any other material or substance excavated for
commercial, industrial or construction use. This definition includes all exploration and

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                            29100010
XX, XXKX 2010
                                                                                        Page 1-19

mining, regardless of area disturbed or volume mined. Production of mineral resources
means the use of portable crushing, on-site stockpiling, washing, milling, screening, or
sorting equipment or other similar methods of initial treatment of a mineral resource to
transport to another site for use or further processing. Secondary processing such as
concrete or asphalt batch plants are considered industrial uses.

Family -

a. Any one of the following shall be considered a family when living together as a
   single housekeeping unit within a dwelling unit (excluding servants):

   4. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, legal adoption,
      foster care or guardianship; or,
   2. Agroup of not more than five (5) unrelated persons; or,

   3.   Residential Home - A residence for (5) or fewer unrelated mentally or physically
        handicapped persons and staff persons who need not be related to each other or
        any other home resident. A residential home must be approved as an Adult Care
        Home by the Wasco County Planning Department.

b. Each group described     herein or portion thereof, shall be considered         a separate
   family.

Family Hardship Dwelling - A mobile home or recreational vehicle used temporarily
during a family hardship situation when an additional dwelling is allowed to house aged or
infirm person or persons physically incapable of maintaining a complete separate
residence apart from their family.

Farm Management Plan - Shall include information applicable to the specific farm use
from the following list:

   --proof that the parcel is enrolled in a farm deferral program with the Wasco County
   Assessor;

   --written description of the current and/or proposed farm operation that identifies the
   number of acres of land in production, type and number of acres planted to a specific
   crop;

   --the current and/or proposed number of animals grazing or being raised on the farm
   parcel;

   —existing and/or proposed farm structures (including irrigation sprinklers) supporting
   the farm use and existing water rights.

                                               90100010          Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                    XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-20

    --description of the existing and/or proposed number of employees, including owners, ,
    working the farm parcel, and their responsibilities and the hours per week they will be
    principally engaged in the farm use.

    --a map that shows the location of all current and/or proposed farm activities including
    but not limited to registered fields, grazing areas, areas dedicated to farm structures,
    acres and location of water rights (Farm Services Agency map); and

    --a schedule of all proposed agricultural uses which shail be initiated within one year
    and complete within five years

Feedlot - See Livestock Feedlot.

Fence, Protective - A fence at least six feet tall designed to restrict passage through the
fence. A protective fence includes stockade, woven wood, chain link and others, but not
split rail or primarily barbed wire.

Fence, Site-Obscuring - A fence consisting of wood, metal, or masonry, or an evergreen
hedge or other evergreen planting, arranged in such a way as to obstruct vision.

Fill - The placement, deposition or stockpiling of sand, sediment or other earth materials
to create new uplands or create an elevation above the existing surface.

Finished grade - The final elevation of the ground level of a property after construction
is completed.

Fire Break - A break in ground cover fuels, adjacent to and surrounding buildings.

Floor Area - The sum of the horizontal areas of each floor of a building, measured from
the interior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of the walls separating two
buildings.      The floor area measurement is exclusive of unfinished attics and basements,
attached garages & carports, and covered or uncovered porches, decks, and breezeways

Flow - The volume of water passing through a hydroelectric facility during a given period.
 Flow is expressed in cubic feet per second.

Footprint - The area that falls directly beneath and shares the same perimeter as a
structure.

Forbs - Broad-leaved herbs, in contrast to ferns, fern allies, and grasses and grasslike
piants.

Foreground (SMA) - One-half mile either side of traveled road or trail.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                              9 9 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                         Page 1-21

Forest health (SMA) - A measure of the robustness of forest ecosystems. Forests are
deemed healthy when they have capacity across the landscape for renewal, for the
maintenance of wildlife habitats, for recovery from a wide range of disturbances, and for
retention of their resilience.

Forest Practice (SMA) - Any activity conducted on or directly pertaining to forested
land and relating to forest ecosystem management including but not limited to growing,
thinning, or removing live or dead forest tree or shrub species, road and trail
construction, reforestation, fertilizing,            brush control, prevention of wildfire, and
suppression of diseases and insects.                The removal of hazardous trees is excluded.
Uses that include establishment, management or harvest of Christmas trees, nursery
stock,   or   fiber    producing       tree    species   requiring   intensive      cultivation      (irrigation,
fertilization, etc.) and a harvest rotation of 12 years or less are considered agricultural
uses.

Forest Practice (GMA) - Those activities related to the growing and harvesting of forest
tree species as defined by the Oregon Forest Practices Act.

Forest Products - Commodities                 produced from a forest, including, but not limited to,
timber products, boughs, mushrooms, pine cones, and huckleberries.

Forest Service - U.S. Forest Service, National Scenic Area Office, located in Hood River,
Oregon.

Forest stand structure (SMA) - The number, types and spacing of tree species, tree
sizes, and canopy layers contained in a stand of trees.

Forest Use - The growing, propagation and harvesting of forest tree species and other
forest products.

Foster Home - A home licensed by the State and providing shelter and food to not more
than five (5) persons in addition to the primary owner or occupant of the home.

Frontage - All the property fronting on one (1) side of a street between intersecting or
intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway and/or dead-end
street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage on the side of the street which it
intercepts.

Fully Screened - A description of the relative visibility of a structure where that structure
is not visible as viewed from a specified vantage point.                                  :

Future    Street      - A   proposed      right-of-way   as   may    be   designated       by the      Planning
Commission,        or such other agency or authority as provided for herein, which street is
necessary for the future subdivision of property, shown on the subdivision plats and/or

                                                     9 0 4 0 0 0 1 0             Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                   XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-22

maps, but that the present dedication and construction of such street is not warranted.

Garage, Public - A structure in which are provided facilities for the repair of motor
vehicles, including body and fender repair, painting, rebuilding, reconditioning,
upholstering, or other vehicle maintenance repair, or where such vehicles are parked or
stored.

GMA Only - This is a reference mechanism throughout this ordinance to signify that a
use or criteria is only applicable in the General Management Area.

GMA & SMA - This is a reference mechanism throughout this ordinance to signify that a
use or criteria is applicable in both the General Management Area and the Special
Management Area.

Gorge Commission - The Columbia River Gorge Commission as established by Public
Law 99-663, the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act.

Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation) - The lowest point of elevation of the finished
surface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building and a point five (5) feet
distant from said wall, or the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground
between the exterior wall of a building and the property line if it is less than five (5) feet
distant from said wall.              .

Grade (ground level) - The average elevation of the finished ground elevation as defined
by the Uniform Building Code.

Grading - Any excavating or filling of earth materials         or any combination     thereof,
including the land in its excavated or filled condition.

Gross Building Area - The total area taken on a horizontal plane at the mean grade level
of the principal building, and all accessory buildings, exclusive of uncovered porches,
terraces, steps, roof overhang and balconies.

Group Day Care Home - A facility located in a single-family dwelling that is certified by
the Children's Services Division to care for six (6) to twelve (12) children under the age of
thirteen (13) at one time. A group day care home must be within the home of the care
provider, and is considered a residential use in residential and commercial zones.

Group Home - A licensed home maintained and supervised by adults for the purpose of
providing care, food and lodging for retarded adults, elderly persons, or children under the
age of eighteen (18) years, unattended by parent(s) or guardian(s) where the number of
unrelated persons living together as one household commonly exceeds five.

Guest House - Living quarters within a separate structure, with no kitchen or laundry

Chapter 1-introductory Provisions
                                                        99100020
XX, AXXX 2010
                                                                                                          Page 1-23

facilities, located on the same lot-of-record with a primary dwelling, and occupied solely
by temporary guests. Such quarters shall not be rented or otherwise used as a separate
dwelling unit. See Section 4.110 for "Guest House” development standards.

Guy Wire - A cable or wire used as a semi-flexible tension support between a guy anchor
and a tower.

Half Street - One-half of the right-of-way of a public way equally divided by the property
or border line, dedicated to the public together with the total width, here, of the public way
by all owners, at the time of the recording of any piat including such half street or way.

Hazard tree (SMA) - A tree with a structural defect that will predictably result in whole
or partial failure within 1.5 tree lengths of a road or maintained development.         A
defective tree is hazardous only when its failure could result in danger to people or
damage to structures, vehicles, or other property.

Head - The vertical distance from the highest water level of a dam, diversion, or intake for
a hydroelectric facility to the elevation where water from the facility is discharged.                    Head is
expressed in feet.

Health Officer - The North           Central    Public    Health   District     Health         Unit    Officer     or
Environmental Health Officer.

Height of Building - The greatest vertical distance between the point of lowest finished
grade adjoining any exterior wall of a building and the highest point of the roof, such as
the highest coping or parapet of a flat roof, the highest deck line of a mansard roof, or
the highest ridge of a hip, gable, gambrel, shed or other pitched roof.

Herbaceous - A plant          with   no   persistent     woody     stem       above      the      ground,        with
characteristics of an herb.

Herbs - Nonwoody (herbaceous) plants, including grasses and grasslike plants, forbs,
fem allies, and nonwoody vines.        (Note:    Seedlings of woody plants that are less than 3
feet   tall shall be considered part of the herbaceous layer.)

High Water Line or Mark - The highest water level a stream or lake reaches during
normal seasonal run-off.

Historic Buildings and Structures - See cultural resource.

Historic Survey - Actions that document the form, style, integrity, and physical condition
of historic buildings and structures. Historic surveys may include archival research,
architectural drawings, and photographs.

                                                         20100010              Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                      XX, OO     2010
Page 1-24

Holdings - Ail contiguous lands in a single ownership.

Home Occupation - Any lawful activity carried on within a dwelling or other building
normally associated with uses permitted in the zone and which said activity is secondary
to the primary use of the property for residential purposes.

Horizontal Axis WECS - A WECS on which the rotor axis substantially is parallel to the
ground.

Horse, Boarding of (GMA) - The stabling, feeding and grooming , or the use of sfalls for
the care of horses not belonging to the owner of the property, and related facilities, such
as training areas, corrals and exercise tracks.             These facilities are either operated for a
fee or by a nonprofit organization.

The boarding of horses does not include the following:
a. The mere pasturage of horses or the boarding of horses not owned by the property
   owner for the purpose of breeding with the owner's stock;

b. The boarding of horses for friends or guests where no charge is made, and

c.   Equestrian activities when the raising, feeding, training or grooming of horses is a farm
     use    by the     property     owner   of the   land   qualifying   for farm   assessment   under
     regulations of the State Department of Revenue.

Horticulture - The cultivation of plants, garden crops, trees and/or nursery stock.

Hospital, General - An institution providing health services, primarily for in-patients, and
medical, psychiatric or surgical diagnosis and care of the sick or injured, including as an
integral part of the institution such related facilities as laboratories, out-patient facilities,
central service facilities, retail facilities, for the needs of patients, staff and doctors’ offices,
and residential facilities for staff and patients.

Hospital, Mental - A hospital used exclusively for the treatment of persons suffering from
nervous or mental disorders.

Hotel -.A building or portion thereof of more than five (5) sleeping rooms designed or
used for occupancy of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, and in which no
provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.

Hydric Soil - A soil that is saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough during the growing
season to development anaerobic conditions in the upper part.

Immediate Family Member - Family member of the first degree of kinship or equivalent
thereof.

                                                                         20100010
Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
XX, OKK 2010
                                                                                              Page 1-25

In-lieu Sites - sites acquired by the Army Corps of Engineers and transferred to the
Bureau of Indian Affairs for treaty fishing, in lieu of those usual and accustomed fishing
areas lost by inundation from reservoir construction. These sites were acquired under the
provisions of Public Law 14 and Public Law 100-581, Section 401. Additional in-lieu sites
will be provided for.

Indian Tribal Government - The governing bodies of the Nez Perce Tribes (Nez Perce
Tribal Executive Committee), the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation
(Board of Trustee), the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon
(Tribal Council), and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation
(Tribal Council).

Indian Tribes - The Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima
Indian Nation, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon, and
the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation.

Industrial Uses - Any use of land or water primarily involved in:

a. Assembly or manufacture of goods or products;

b. Processing or reprocessing of raw materials, processing of recyclable materials or
   agricultural products not produced within a constituent farm unit;

c.   Storage or warehousing, handling or distribution of manufactured goods or products,
     raw materials, agricultural products, forest products or recyclable materials for
     purposes other than retail sale and service; or

d.   Production of electric power for commercial purposes.

New industrial uses shall not be allowed in the Scenic Area outside Urban Areas.

Interpretive Displays - Signs and structures which provide for the convenience,
education, and enjoyment of visitors, helping them to understand and: appreciate natural
and cultural resources and their relationship to them.

Junk   Yard   - Any     property where   persons   are engaged   in breaking      up,   dismantling,
sorting, distributing, buying or selling of any scrap, waste materials or junk.

Key Components - The attributes that are essential to maintain the long-term use and
productivity of a wildlife site. The key components vary by species and wildlife site.
Examples include fledgling and perching trees, watering sites, and foraging habitat.

Key Viewing      Area (KVA) - Those      portions of important public roads, parks or other

                                                   2 C 4 0 0 0 i 0    Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                        XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-26

vantage points within the Scenic Area from which the public views Scenic landscapes.
These include:

    --Historic Columbia River Highway
    --Crown Point
    ~-Highway I-84, including rest stops
    --Multnomah Falls
    --Washington State Route 14
    --Beacon Rock
    --Panorama Point Park
    --Cape Horn
    --Dog Mountain Trail
    --Cook-Underwood Road
    --Rowena Plateau and Nature Conservancy Viewpoint
    --Portland Women's Forum State Park
    --Bridal Veil State Park
    --Larch Mountain
    --Rooster Rock State Park
    --Bonneville Dam Visitor Centers
    --Columbia River
    --Washington State Route 141
    —Washington State Route 142
     --Oregon Highway 35
    --Sandy River
    --Pacific Crest Trail

    SMA only:
    ~-Old Washington State Route 14 (County Road 1230)
    --Wyeth Bench Road
    -Larch Mountain Road
    --Sherrard Point on Larch Mountain

Kitchen - A place where food is cooked or prepared as well as the place where the
facilities and equipment used to cook, prepare and store food are located.

Land Division - The division or redivision of contiguous land(s) into tracts, parcels, sites
or divisions, regardless of the proposed parcel or tract size or use. A land division
includes, but is not limited to short subdivisions, partitions and subdivisions.   Land division
does not include the creation of cemetery plots while used for that purpose.

Landscaping - Improving the aesthetics of a piece of land by the grading, clearing and
use of natural or artificial material. Landscaping may be subject to Chapter 14.

Landscape        Setting - The combination of land use, landform and vegetation patterns

Chapter t4ntroductory Provisions                             9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, 00K 2010
                                                                                              Page 1-27

which distinguish an area in appearance and character from other portions of the Scenic
Area.

Livestock Feedlot - Stockyards and commercial livestock finishing yards for cattle,
sheep, swine and fur bearers. Feedlots do not include winter pasture or winter hay-
feeding grounds.

Loading Space - An off-street space or berth on the same lot or parcel with a building or
use, or contiguous to a group of buildings or uses, for the temporary parking of a vehicle
while loading or unloading persons, merchandise or material, and which space or berth
abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of ingress and egress.

Local Access Road — Public road over which the public has a right of use that is a
matter of public record and was       legally created at the time of dedication, but has not
been accepted for maintenance by the county, state or the US highway systems.                    Local
access roads are privately maintained.

Local Road or Street - A road or street primarily used to provide direct access to
adjacent land uses; characterized by short roadway distances, slow speeds, and low
volumes; offers a high level of accessibility; serves passenger cars, pedestrians, and
bicycles, but not through trucks. Local roads may be paved or unpaved.    The    typical
average daily traffic is less than 250.

Lot - A unit of land that is created by a subdivision of land.

Lot Area - The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.

Lot, Corner - A lot fronting on two (2) or more streets at their junction, said streets
forming with each other an angle of forty-five (45) degrees up to and including one
hundred thirty-five (135) degrees.

Lot Depth - The perpendicular distance measured from the mid-point of the front lot line
to the mid-point of the opposite lot line.

Lot, Interior - A lot other than a corner lot.

Lot Lines - The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.

Lot Line Adjustment - Relocation of one or more common boundary lines between two
contiguous parcels that does not create additional parcels. See Property Line
Adjustment and Replat.

Lot Line (Front) - In the case of an interior lot, a line separating the lot from the street;
and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the narrowest frontage of the lot from the

                                             “ 2 0 1   0 0 0 1 0      Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                        XX, XXKX, 2010
Page 1-28

street.

Lot Line (Rear) - The line dividing one lot from another and on the opposite side of the lot
from the front lot line, and in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line ten
(10) feet in length within the lot parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.

Lot Line (Side) - In the case of an interior lot, a line separating one lot from the abutting
lot or lots fronting on the same       street, and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating
one lot from the abutting lot or lots fronting on the same street.

Lot (Through) - An interior Jot having frontage on two (2) streets.

Lot Width - The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right angles to
the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear lot lines.

Maintenance - Ordinary upkeep or preservation of a serviceable structure affected by
wear      or natural    elements.   Maintenance   does   not   change   the   original   size,    scope,
configuration or design of a structure.

Maintenance includes, but is not limited to, painting and refinishing, regrouting masonry,
patching roofs, grading gravel roads and road shoulders, cleaning and armoring ditches
and culverts, filling potholes, controlling vegetation within rights-of-way, removing trees
and other roadside hazards within rights-of-way, and testing and treating utility poles.

Management          Plan    - The   Management    Plan for the Columbia       River Gorge        National
Scenic Area.

Manufacture - The processing or converting of raw, unfinished, or finished materials or
products or any combination thereof into an article or substance of different character, or
for use for a different character or purpose.

Map - A final diagram, drawing or other writing concerning a land division.

Medical Hardship — Means a temporary circumstance caused by serious illness or
infirmity, not to exceed two years in duration, and authorized by a licensed medical
practitioner (Medical Doctor, Physicians Assistant or Nurse Practitioner).

Metes and Bounds - The method used to describe a tract or tracts of land for the
purposes of ownership or for building development, as contrasted with the description of
a part of a properly approved and recorded subdivision plat by the lot number and block
designation.                         :

Mitigation - The use of any or all of the following actions:

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                  2 0 ¢ 0 0 0 5 | 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                           Page 1-29

a. Avoiding the impact altogether by not taking a certain action or parts of an action;

b. Minimizing impacts by limiting the degree or magnitude of the action and its
     implementation;

c.   Rectifying the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring the affected environment,
     or

d. Reducing or eliminating the impact over time                     by preservation         and    maintenance
   operations during the life of the action.

Mobile Home -

a.   Aresidential trailer, a structure constructed for movement on the public highways, that
     has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human occupancy, is
     being used for residential purposes and was constructed before January 1, 1962.

b. A mobile house, a structure constructed for movement on the public highways, that
   has sleeping, cooking and plumbing facilities, that is intended for human occupancy, is ”
   being used for residential purposes and was constructed between January 1, 1962,
   and June 15, 1976, and met the construction requirements of Oregon mobile home
   law in effect at the time of construction.

c.   A manufactured home, a structure constructed for movement on the public highways,
     that   has   sleeping,   cooking    and      plumbing    facilities,   that   is intended       for human
     occupancy, is being used for residential purposes and was constructed in accordance
     with federal manufactured housing construction and safety standards regulations in
     effect at the time of construction.

Mobile Home Community - A mobile home development and related utilities and
facilities, including the mobile homes and all of the people living within the development.

Mobile Home Lot - A parcel              of land     for the   placement      of a mobile          home   and    the
exclusive use of its occupants.

Mobile Home Park - Any place where four (4) or more mobile homes are located within
five hundred (500) feet of one another on a lot, tract or parcel of land under the same
ownership, the primary purpose of which is to rent space or keep space for rent to any
person for a charge or fee paid or to be paid for the rental or use of facilities or to offer
space free in connection with securing the trade or patronage of such person.

Mobile Home Space - A plot or parcel of land within the mobile home park, designed to
accommodate one (1) mobile home.

                                                  29100010                         Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                     XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-30

Mobile Home Stand - That part of a mobile home space which has been reserved for the
placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures, or additions.

Modular Unit - A fabricated, transportable building unit, other than a mobile home,
designed to be incorporated at a building site into a structure to be used for residential
and/or commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes, with all of the following
charactenstics:

a.   Having an electrical meter base permanently attached to the structure.

b.   Designed and built to the specification of the State or County               Building     Code   for
     conventional structures in effect at the time of its construction.

c.   Having a permanent foundation.

Mosaic (SMA) - The dispersal of overstory and understory leave trees in irregularly
spaced clumps of varying sizes throughout an irregularly shaped created forest
opening.

Motor Home - A             self-propelled   recreation vehicle that is not used    as a permanent
residence.

Multi-family Dwelling - A dwelling constructed or modified into two or more single-family
units.               ;

Native Species - Species that naturally inhabit an area.

Natural Areas - Areas sited in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area
Management Plan (Table 10, page |-138 through !-139) as having Representative Plant
Communities or as being Botanically Significant.

Natural grade - The undisturbed elevation of the ground level of a property before any
excavation or construction operations.

Natural Resource-Based Recreation (SMA) - Recreation activities, uses or facilities that
essentially depend on the unique natural, scenic, or cultural resources found within the
Scenic Area. Campgrounds, trails, boating and windsurfing facilities, swimming beaches,
picnic ‘sites, viewpoints, interpretive parks, and similar outdoor recreation facilities are
considered      resource-based;      whereas golf courses, tennis courts, and rental cabins are
not.

Natural Resources - Naturally occurring features including               land, water,        air, plants,
animals, including fish, plant and animal habitat, and scenery.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                        20100010
XX, AXXX 2010
                                                                                                        Page 1-31

Natural Resource Specialist - A person with professional qualifications including an
academic degree or sufficient professional experience in the subject matter the specialist
is being asked to analyze or evaluate.

Negotiate - Any activity preliminary to the execution of a binding agreement for the sale
of land in a subdivision or partition, including but not limited to, advertising, solicitation,
and promotion of such sale of land.

Net Metering - A simplified method of metering the energy consumed and produced at
a private property that has its own renewable energy generator, such as a wind turbine.
Under net metering, excess electricity produced by the wind turbine will spin the existing
electricity meter backwards, effectively banking the electricity until it is needed by the
customer.

Nonconforming lot or parcel - A lot or parcel lawfully created which does not conform to
the current requirements of the zone in which it is located.

Nonconforming Structure or Use - A lawful existing structure or use at the time this
Ordinance or any amendment thereto becomes effective, which does not conform to the
requirements of the zone in which it is located.

Non-profit Organizations - An organization whose non-profit status has been approved
by the U.S. internal Revenue Service.

Not visually evident (SMA) - A visual quality standard that provides for development or
uses that are not visually noticeable to the casual visitor. Developments or uses shall
only   repeat   form,   line,   color,   and   texture    that   are   frequently   found     in the    natural
landscape, while changes in their qualities of size, amount, intensity, direction, pattern,
etc., shall not be noticeable.

Nursing Home - Any home or institution maintained or operating for the nursing and care
of four (4) or more ill or infirm adults, not requiring hospital care or hospital facilities.

 Official Map - Specifically describes the location of streets, highways, public parks,
‘drainage systems and other public installations, both existing and planned, in the
 community. Once land has been placed on the official map, the Ordinance so providing
 restricts any further construction with the planned rights-of-way. The Official Map helps to
 implement the comprehensive plan.

Old Growth (SMA) - A forest stand usually at least 180-220 years old with moderate to
high canopy closure; a multi-layered, multi-species canopy dominated by large
overstory trees; high incidence of large trees, some with broken tops and other
indications of old and decaying wood (decadence); numerous large snags, and heavy

                                                         20100010               Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                  XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-32

accumulations of wood, including large logs on the ground.

Operational (SMA) - For new agricultural use, an agricultural use shall be deemed
operational when the improvements and investments described in the Stewardship Plan
are in place on the parcel.

Ordinary High Water Mark - The mark on all streams, ponds, and lakes that will be
found by examining the bed and banks and ascertaining where the presence and action
of waters are so common             and usual, and so long continued in all ordinary years, as to
mark upon the soil a vegetative character distinct from that of the abutting upland. In any
area where the ordinary high water mark cannot be found, the line of mean high water
shall substitute.

ORS. - The Oregon Revised Statutes.

Other related major structure (SMA) - A structure related to a dwelling on a parcel in
the SMA that is less than 40 acres in size, which is not incidental and subordinate to the
main use of the property.      A building or structure that satisfies the definition of
“accessory building" is not an “other related major structure" or a “major development
action.”

Overstory (SMA) - For forest practices, the tall or mature trees that rise above the
shorter or immature understory trees.

Owner - The individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or corporation having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.

Parcel (Legal)/Lot of Record - A unit of land created as follows:

a. A lot in an existing, duly recorded subdivision; or

b. A parcel in an            existing,   duly   recorded   partition   (including    major    or minor   land
   partitions); or

c.   By deed or land sales contract prior to 4 September 1974.

A unit of land shall not be considered a separate parcel (legal)/lot of record simply
because the subject tract of land:

a.   Is a unit of land created solely to establish a separate tax account;

b.   Lies in different counties;

                                                                               2    9 4   0 0 0 b | 0
Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                Page 1-33

c.   Lies in different sections or government lots;

d.   Lies in different land use or zoning designations; or

e.   Is dissected by a public or private road.

Consolidation:      See Section 13.200 for “Consolidation of Undeveloped Subdivisions.

Parking Lot, Private - Open off-street area used for temporary parking of more than
three (3) automobiles, and available with or without charge, and with the permission of
owner only.

Parking Lot, Public - Open off-street area used for temporary parking of more than three
(3) automobiles, and available for public use with or without charge.

Parking Space - A minimum gross area available for the parking of a standard American
automobile.

Parkway      - A park-like major thoroughfare with broad          rights-of-way and wide median
areas,   designed    and   landscaped   to furnish   a safe and   pleasing drive between         parks,
scenic areas and principal objectives.

Partition - Either an act of partitioning land or an area or tract of land partitioned as
defined in this section,

Partition Land - To divide an area or tract of land into two or three parcels within a
calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous units of land
under single ownership at the beginning of such year. "Partition land" does not include
divisions of land resulting from the creation of cemetery lots; and "partition land" does not
include any adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary where any
additional parce! is not created and where the existing parcel reduced in size by the
adjustment is not reduced below the minimum lot size established by an applicable
zoning ordinance.      "Partition land" does not include the sale of a lot in a recorded
subdivision, even though the lot may have been acquired prior to the sale with other
contiguous lots or property by a singie owner.

Party - With respect to administrative actions, the following persons or entities only, who
file a timely statement or request for hearing as provided by general provisions of this
Ordinance, are hereby defined as a party:

a. The applicant and all owners or contract purchasers of record, as shown in the files of
   the Wasco County Assessors Office, of the property which is. the subject of the
     application.

                                                     29100010           Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                          XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-34

b. All property owners of record, as provided in (a) above, within the notification area, as
   described in Table 2-1, of the property which is the subject of the application.

c. A Citizen Advisory Group         pursuant to the Citizen   Involvement      Program    approved
   pursuant to ORS. 197.160.

d. Any affected unit of local government or public district or state or federal agency.

e. Any other person, or his representative, who is specifically, personally or adversely
   affected in the subject matter, as determined by the Approving Authority.

Pathway - A walkway conforming to Chapter 21 that is not within a street right-of-way.

Pedestrian Way - A way or right-of-way for pedestrian traffic.

Person - An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, syndicate, or
any legal entity, and including any trustee, receiver, assignee, or other similar
representative thereof.

Place of Public Assembly - A structure which is designed to accommodate more than
twenty-five (25) persons at one time for such          purposes   as   deliberation,     education,
worship, shopping, entertainment or amusement.

Planning Commission - The Wasco County Pianning Commission.

Planning Control Area - An area in a state of incomplete development within which
special control is to be exercised over land partitioning.

Plat - A special and final map, diagram or drawing of a subdivision, major or minor
partition prepared from completed information, containing writings, descriptions, locations,
specification, dedications, provisions, and information concerning a subdivision, being
drawn to scale to geometrically represent defined land and setting forth all mathematical
data necessary to the identification, location and perpetuation of the various land
boundaries indicated thereon, without recourse to supplementary metes and bounds
description for conveyances.

Porch - Outside walking area, the floor of which is elevated more than eight (8) inches
from the ground.

Practicable - Able to be done, considering technology and cost.

Pre-existing - Existing prior to the adoption of the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic
Area Management Plan.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                      2 0 q    0 0 0 » | 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                                Page 1-35

Prevailing Wind Direction - Within 45 degrees of the direction from which wind flows for
at least 20 percent of the year based on at least one year's site-specific recorded wind
data.

Previously disturbed - An area of land where the natural surface has been graded,
excavated, paved and/or graveled.

Private Easement Road - A minimum 30 foot wide private easement in any zone that
provides ingress and egress to a public or private road for not more than three (3) units
of land and serves not more than three (3) units of land.

Private Road - A road in a resource zone (F-1, F-2, & A-1) whose primary purpose is to
provide access for resource activities, that was accepted by the County Governing Body
pursuant to Section 21.300 of this Ordinance or has been previously recognized by the
County Governing Body and which is not public, but which intersects with an existing
public road.

Project Area - The geographic area or areas within which new development and uses
may cause changes in the character or use of cultural resources, if any such resources
exist.

Property Line Adjustment - The relocation              a common      property    line between        two
abutting properties. See Lot Line Adjustment.

Public Road - A road over which the public has a right of use that is a matter of public
record and was legally created at the time of dedication.

Public Use Facility - Recreation development(s) which meet the definition of "recreation
facility" in this ordinance and are open for use by the general public. Private clubs and
other facilities limited to members or otherwise restricted in availability shall not be
considered public use facilities.

Ramada - A freestanding roof or shade structure installed above the roof of a mobile
home that provides protection from rain, snow, sun or other forms of inclement weather.

Rare Plant Species - Used in a generic sense to refer to various categories of sensitive
plants cited in federal and state programs.

Reconnaissance Survey - Actions conducted to determine if archaeological resources
are present in an area that would be affected by a proposed use. Reconnaissance
surveys may include archival research, surface surveys, subsurface testing, and
ethnographic research.

Recreation    Facility   -   A   cluster   or   grouping    of   recreational    developments          or

                                                2   ® 1 0 0 0 1 0       Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                          XX, WOOK 2010
Page 1-36

improvements located in relatively close proximity to one another, and which are not
separated in distance by more than one-quarter mile of land not containing any such
developments or improvements, except for roads and/or pathways.

Recreation Opportunity Spectrum (ROS) - A means of classifying areas in relation to
the types of recreation opportunities and experiences they provide or are appropriate for.
The spectrum ranges from primitive (wilderness areas) to urban (highly modified areas).

a.   Primitive:  Remote, inaccessible              areas with      a high    degree      of solitude and with
     resources essentially unmodified.

b. Semiprimitive: Areas accessible only by primitive transportation routes, with low to
   moderately infrequent human encounters and with only subtle modifications to the
   natural setting.

c.   Roaded Natural: Roaded areas with moderately frequent human encounters and with
     resource modifications evident.

d.   Rural: Roaded areas with moderate to highly frequent human encounters and with
     the natural setting dominated by cultural modifications.

e.   Suburban:        Areas         representing   the    rural-urban   interface,     with     urban-like    roads,
     structures, highly frequent human encounters, and dominant resource modifications
     encroaching into the rural landscape.

f.   Urban:      Highly     accessible,      roaded      areas   dominated    by     human       encounters     and
     human-related structures.

Recreation       Resources          - Areas and facilities that provide recreation opportunities and
experiences. Recreation resources include semi-primitive areas with few facilities and
developed sites.

Recreational Vehicle or Camping Vehicle - A vacation trailer or other unit with or
without motive power which is designed for human occupancy and to be used temporarily
for recreational or emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes, and is identified
as a recreational vehicle by the manufacturer. A recreational or camping vehicle shall be
considered a dwelling unit if any of the following are true:

a.   It is connected to a sewer system (including septic tank) except for the purpose of
     emptying the holding tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

b. It is connected to water or electrical lines except for purposes of charging                                  the
   batteries or filling water tanks; after such time it must be disconnected;

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                                     2 rt] 1   0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                  Page 1-37

      NOTE: Allowances can be made for subsections a and b above if in the opinion of
      the Compliance Officer evidence suggests that the use of the RV is occasional and
      temporary for the purpose of accommodating visitors

 c.   It is occupied for more than 60 days, on the same property, in any consecutive 12
      month period; or

 d.   It is parked on property that is without a legally placed dwelling for more than 30 days
      during any 6 month period.

 Recreational Vehicle Park - A lot or tract where the primary land use is the parking, on a
 fee or other basis, occupied by motor homes, truck campers, travel trailers, or other
 recreational vehicles.                                      :

 Regularly maintained - An area of land that has been previously disturbed and where
 periodic actions have been taken to:

 a.   keep the area clear of vegetation (e.g., shoulders, utility yards), and

 b. limit the height and type of vegetation (e.g., utility rights-of-way), and/or

 c. establish and     retain   non-native   vegetation    (e.g.,   landscaped   medians,       rest area
    grounds).

' Rehabilitation (Natural Resources) - A human activity that retums a wetland, stream,
 buffer zone, or other sensitive area that was disturbed during construction of a permitted
 use to its natural or pre-construction condition.

 Remnant old forest (SMA) - Large trees in the overstory that are well into the mature
 growth state (older than 180 years).

 Repair - Replacement or reconstruction of a part of a serviceable structure after
 damage, decay or wear. A repair returns a structure to its original and previously
 authorized and undamaged condition (in kind). It does not change the original size,
 scope, configuration or design of a structure, nor does it excavate beyond the depth of
 the original structure.

 Repair includes, but is not: limited to, re-roofing a building, replacing damaged
 guardrails, reconstructing a rotten deck or porch, replacing a broken window or door,
 replacing a utility pole and associated anchors, replacing a section of broken water or
 sewer line, replacing a damaged or defective utility line, reconstructing a portion of a
 building damaged by fire or a natural event, and replacing railroad ties or rails.

 Replat - The act of platting the lots, parcels and easements in a recorded subdivision or

                                               2   S 1   0 0 0 t 0        Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                            XX, XXX, 2010
Page 1-38

partition plat to achieve a reconfiguration of the existing subdivision or partition plat, to
increase or decrease the number of lots in a subdivision, or to correct an error or
irregularity in the original plat.

Reserved Open Space - Land areas reserved through public dedication, public
ownership, easements, covenants, or other devices for public use and limited
development.

Residential Trailer - A portable residence that is transportable on public highways by
permanently attached axles, the dimensions of which do not exceed thirty-two (32) feet in
length, or eight (8) feet in width, or any equivalent dimension combination.

Resource-based Recreation - Those recreation uses which are essentially dependent
upon      the   natural,   scenic    or cultural   resources   of the Scenic         Area     and   which   do   not
adversely affect those resources upon which they depend.

Restaurant - A public establishment for the purpose of selling meals to customers.

Restoration (Wetlands) - A human activity that converts an area that was formerly a
wetland back into a wetland. This definition presumes that the area to be restored no
longer qualifies as a wetland because of past activities, alterations, or catastrophic
events.

Retirement Center - A building or group of buildings containing separate dwelling units
designed for and occupied principally (at least one occupant of each dwelling unit), by
persons over the age of sixty (60) years, excluding convalescent and nursing care as a
function of the center.

Reversed         Corner     Lot     - A   corner   lot where   the   street   side     line   is substantially     a
continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its rear.

Review Types —

a.   Type | (Ministerial/Nondiscretionary)
     These procedures are decided by the Director, or the Director’s designee without
     public notice or public hearing. They do not require interpretation or the exercise of
     policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval standards. Type | does not qualify
     as a “land use decision” under Oregon Revised Statute (ORS) 197.015(11).

b. Type IIl(Administrative/Discretionary)
   These procedures are decided by the Director or the Director's designee with notice,
   as established by Chapter 2, and appeal period established by ORS 215.416(11).
   They do require interpretation or the exercise of policy or legai judgment in
   evaluating approval standards and qualify as a land use decision under ORS

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                                    2 0 1    0 0 0 1 0
AX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                           Page 1-39

   197.015(11). An appeal of a Type II decision becomes a Type Ill review.

c. Type IIl{Quasi Judicial/Planning Commission or County Governing Body)

   Planning Commission
   These procedures are initially heard and decided solely by the Planning
   Commission or on appeal from the Planning Director with the hearings process,
   notice and appeal period governed by ORS 197.763. They do require interpretation
   or the exercise of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval standards and
   qualify as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

   County Governing Body
   These procedures are initially heard and decided solely by the County Governing
   Body or on appeal from the Planning Commission with the hearings process, notice
   and appeal period governed by ORS 197.763. They do require interpretation or the
   exercise of policy or legal judgment in evaluating approval standards and qualify as
   a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).

d. Type IV(Legislative/County Governing Body)
   These procedures are heard and decided solely by the County Governing Body after
   an initia! hearing and recommendation is made by the Planning Commission. The
   hearings process, notice and appeal period are governed by ORS 197.763. They
   do require substantial interpretation or the exercise of policy or legal judgment and
   qualify as a land use decision under ORS 197.015(11).                              .

Review uses - Proposed uses and developments that must be reviewed by Wasco
County to determine if they comply with the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land
Use and Development Ordinance.

Right-of-Way - The area between boundary lines of a road, street or other easement.
Right-of-way includes passageways such as freeways, pedestrian connections, alleys,
and all streets. A right-of-way shall be dedicated or deeded to the public for public use
and under the control of a public agency, or it shall be dedicated or deeded and
privately owned.

Riparian Area - The area immediately adjacent to streams, ponds, lakes, and wetlands
that directly contributes to the water quality and habitat components of the water body.
This may include areas that have high water tables and soils and vegetation that exhibit
characteristics of wetness, as well as upland areas immediately adjacent to the water
body that directly contribute shade,   nutrients, cover, or debris, or that directly enhance
water quality within the water body.

Road - The entire right-of-way of any public or private way that provides ingress to or
egress from property by means of vehicles or other means or that provides travel

                                                                   Chapter 1-introducto ry Provisions
                                         2 c 1 0 0 0 1 0                              XX, XXXX. 2010
  Page 1-40

  between places by means of vehicles.          "Road" includes, but is not limited to:

 a.    Ways described as streets, highways, throughways, or alleys;

  b.   Road-related structures that are in the right-of-way such as tunnels, culverts or similar
     structures; and
  c. Structures that provide for continuity of the right-of-way such as bridges.

  Roadway - The portion or portions of a right-of-way developed for vehicular traffic.

 Rotor - A system of rotating aerodynamic elements and hub assembly attached to a shaft
 that converts the kinetic energy in the wind into mechanical energy or a rotating element
 in an electrical generator.

 Rotor Diameter - Twice the distance from the center of rotation to the outermost point of
 the blade.

  Sale or Sell - Includes every disposition or transfer of land in a subdivision or partition or
  an interest or estate therein.

  Scenic Area - The Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

 Scenic Travel Corridor - Those portions of Interstate 84, the Historic Columbia River
 Highway, Oregon Highway 35, and Washington State Routes 14, 141, and 142 located in
 the Scenic Area, specifically designated to be managed as scenic and recreational travel
 routes.

  School,     Commercial        - A building where   instruction is given to pupils in arts, crafts, or
  trades, and operated as a commercial enterprise, as distinguished from schools endowed
  and/or supparted by taxation.

  School, Elementary - A school offering instruction to one (1) or more grades, between
  and including the fifth through the eighth, exclusively, or in combination with grades lower
  than the fifth.

  School, High - A school offering instruction to one (1) or more grades, between and
  including the ninth through the twelfth, or in combination with the seventh and eighth
  grades.

  School,     Nursery - A school offering instruction and guided activity to kindergarten or
  pre-kindergarten classes.

  School, Primary - A school offering instruction to one (1) or more grades, between and

. Chapter {Introductory Provisions
                                                                  2 0 bl 0 0 0 q 0
                                                                                      Page 1-41

including kindergarten through the fourth.

School, Private or Parochial - A school under the control of and financed primarily by a
religious or philanthropic and non-profit institution operating in conformance with relevant
State Department of Education regulations.

School, Public - A school under the control of and financed by legally constituted public
school districts in the State of Oregon.

Seasonal        Farm Worker - Any person who, for an agreed     remuneration or rate of pay,
performs temporary labor for another to work in production of farm products or planting,
cultivating or harvesting of seasonal agricultural crops or in forestation or reforestation of
lands, including but not limited to, the planting, transplanting, tubing, pre-commercial
thinning and thinning of trees and seedlings, the clearing, piling and disposal of brush and
slash and other related activities.

Secretary - The Secretary of Agriculture.

Sectional Home - Defined the same as a modular home.

Sensitive Plant Species - Plant species that are

a. endemic to the Columbia River Gorge and vicinity,

b. listed as endangered or threatened pursuant to federal or state endangered species
     acts, or

c.   listed as endangered, threatened or sensitive by the Oregon Natural Heritage
     Program as they appear in lists on file at the Columbia River Gorge Commission
     Office.

In the Special Management Area, sensitive plant species also include piant species
recognized by the Regional Forester as needing special management to prevent them
from being placed on federal or state endangered species lists. The Forest Service and
Gorge Commission are responsible for necessary updates to the lists.

Sensitive Wildlife Species - Animal species that are:

a.   listed as endangered or threatened pursuant to federal or state endangered species
     acts,

b. listed as sensitive by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission, or

c.   considered to be of special interest to the public, limited to great blue heron, osprey,

                                                                    Chapter aint      DOC   Zeid
                                       2   4) t 0 0 0 4 0
Page 1-42

    mountain goat, golden eagle, and prairie falcon as they appear on lists on file at the
    Columbia River Gorge Commission office.

in the Special Management Area, sensitive wildlife species also include animal species
recognized by the Regional Forester as needing special management to prevent them
from being placed on federal or state endangered species lists. The Forest Service and
Gorge Commission are responsible for updating the referenced lists.

Service Station - A business operated for the purpose of retailing and delivering motor
vehicle fuel into the fuel tanks of mator vehicles.

Serviceable - Presently useable.

Sewage - Water-carried human or animal waste and kitchen, bath, or laundry waste, from
a building, together with such groundwater infiltration and surface water as may be
present.

Shall - Action is mandatory.

Should - Action is encouraged.

Shrub - A woody plant usually greater than 3 feet but less than 20 feet tall that generally
exhibits several erect, spreading, or prostrate stems and has a bushy appearance. (Note:
 For the Management Plan, seedlings of woody plants that are less than 3 feet tall shall
be considered part of the herbaceous layer.)

Sidewalk - A pedestrian walkway with permanent surfacing.

Sign - Any placard, poster, billboard, advertising structure or inscribed surface, pattern or
artificial lighting, pictorial or symbolic ormament, emblematic structure, banner, fluttering
apparatus, statue, model, ornamental figure, or other visually communicative or
expressive device that is visible from an out-of-doors position and is used to advertise or
call the public's attention to any public, business, commercial, industrial, recreational or
any other activity, object for sale or lease, person or place, or to bear any kind of
message.        lt includes any surface on which a name, text, device, signal, ornament,
logotype, or advertising matters is made visibie. The meaning of "sign" shall also include
any sign currently in disuse, but still visible from an out-of-doors position, any frame or
support structure erected specifically to bear or uphold a sign.

Sign, Advertising - A sign which directs attention to a business, product, activity, or
service which is not necessarily conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where such
a sign is located.

Significant      Adverse       Effect - A consequence   of a   facility that irreparably   reduces

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                   9 £ t   0 C 9 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                             Page 1-43

management of or damages a resource listed as a standard and identified in the
comprehensive plan and the Wasco County Land Use and Development ordinances.

Significant Archaeological Sites - Sites possessing valuable artifacts or evidence of
prehistoric cultures, including areas catalogued by the National Park Service, United
States Department of the Interior, and areas identified by academic institutions.

Significant Change - A change in an existing facility which increases the impact of the
facility on abutting properties. This provision shall be interpreted broadly to invoke review
of any potentially significant change. However, a significant change shall not include
ordinary and regular maintenance, actions such as research, monitoring, and impact
mitigation that were authorized or required by law. Significant change shall not include
other actions, such as reconducting, which may increase the useful life of the facility
without increasing long-term, off-site impacts.

Significant Cultural Resource (SMA) - A cultural resource that is included in, or eligible
for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places. [The criteria for evaluating the
eligibility of properties for the National Register of Historic Places appears in "National
Register Criteria for Evaluation" (36 CFR 60.)]

Significant Interference with Wind Access - A ten (10) percent decrease in wind speed
caused by an obstruction(s).

Single-wide Mobile Home - One (1) complete living unit constructed on a single chassis.

Skyline - The line which represents the place at which a landform, such as a cliff, bluff or
ridge, meets the sky, as viewed from a specified vantage point. In areas with thick,
unbroken tree cover, the skyline is generally formed by the top of the vegetative canopy.
In treeless areas or areas with more open tree cover, the skyline is generally formed by
the surface of the ground.

Slope - An incline in an oblique direction from the perpendicular.

SMA Only - This is a reference mechanism throughout this ordinance to signify that a use
or criteria is only applicable in the Special Management Area.

Soil Capability Class - A classification system developed by the U.S. Soil Conservation
Service to group soils as to their capability for agricultural use.

Solid Waste - Ail putrescible and non-putrescible waste, including, but not limited to,
garbage, rubbish, refuse, ashes, waste paper and cardboard, grass clippings,
composts,   sewer sludge, residential, commercial,    and industrial appliances, equipment
and furniture, discarded or inoperable vehicles, vehicle parts or vehicle tires, manure,
vegetable or animal solid and semisolid waste and dead animals. The term Solid Waste

                                          9   S 1 0 0 0 1 0          Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                       XX, XXXXK. 2010
Page 1-44

does not include:

a.   Materials used for fertilizer or for other productive purposes on land in the growing
     and harvesting of crops or the raising of fowl or animals;

b. Septic tank and cesspool pumping or chemical toilet waste;

c.   Reusable beverage containers as defined in ORS 459A.725; and

d. Source separated principal recyclable materials as defined in ORS Chapter 459 and
     the Rules      promulgated     thereunder,   which   have   been   purchased   or exchanged    for
     fair market value.

Special District - Any unit of local government other than city or county, authorized and
regulated by statute. Special district includes, but is not limited to: water control districts,
irrigation districts, port districts, regional air quality control authorities, fire districts, mass
transit districts, sanitary districts, and Soil & Water Conservation District.

Special Road District — For the purposes of improving roads, special road districts may
be formed from contiguous territory lying within the county and not incorporated within the
limits of a city. Special road districts are governed by a board of commissioners, either
appointed or elected. Speciat road districts have the following powers: to make contracts;
to acquire, hold, receive and dispose of real and personal property; to sue and be sued;
to exercise the power of eminent domain; to assess, levy and collect taxes on ail taxable
property within the district; and to do any other act necessary to carry out purposes of the
special road district. See ORS 371.305.

Special Habitat Area - Wetlands, mudflats, shallow water, and riparian vegetation that
have high values for waterfowl, shorebirds, raptors, songbirds, upland game, and reptiles.

Special Streams           - Streams   that are primary water supplies for fish hatcheries          and
rearing ponds.

Stable, Private - A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned by the
occupants of the premises and which are not kept for remuneration or profit.
Stand - A group of trees possessing uniformity with regard to type, age, vigor, or size.

Standard Drawing - A drawing drawn to the specifications as established by the County
Planning Director or County Roadmaster.
Story - A single floor level of a structure as defined by the Uniform Building Code.

Story, Half - A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of which on at
least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than two (2) feet above the floor of such
story.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                           2 0 q 0 0 0 i 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                              Page 1-45

Streams - Areas where surface water produces a defined. channel or bed, including
bedrock channels, gravel beds, sand and silt beds, springs and defined-channel swales.
The channel or bed does not have to contain water year-round. This definition is not
meant to include irrigation ditches, canals, storm or surface-water runoff structures or
other artificial watercourses unless they are used to convey streams naturally occurring
prior to construction in such water-courses.

For this ordinance, streams are categorized into two classes: perennial streams and
intermittent streams.    Perennial stream means a stream that flows year-round during
years of normal precipitation. Intermittent stream means a stream that flows only part of
the year, or seasonally, during years of normal precipitation.

Street - The entire width between the right-of-way lines of every way for vehicular and
pedestrian traffic, and includes terms, “roads”, "highways", "land", “place”, "avenue",
"alley", and other similar designations.

Street Plug or Reserve Strip - A narrow strip of fand controlling access to a street or half
street, title to which is dedicated to the County and the disposal of which land shall be
placed within the jurisdiction of the County Governing Body for disposal under conditions
approved by the Commission.

Structure - That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or any
piece of work artificially built up or composed     of parts joined together in some definite
manner. This includes, but is not limited to buildings, walls, fences, roads, parking lots,
signs and additions/alterations to structures.

Subdivide - To effect a subdivision, as applied to this Ordinance.

Subdivider - Any person, as defined herein, who undertakes proceedings to effect a
subdivision of land, including changes in street or lot lines, for the purpose of transfer of
ownership of development.

Subdivide Land - To divide an area or tract of land into four or more lots within a
calendar year when such area or tract of land exists as a unit or contiguous units of land
under a single ownership at the beginning of such year.

Subdivision - Either an act of subdividing land or an area or tract of land subdivided as
defined in this section.

Submit - To deliver a document (e.g., land use application, written comment) to a
reviewing agency's office by personal delivery, commercial delivery, mail, fax, or E-mail.
When a document must be submitted within a specified period, it must arrive at the

                                               2 0 1 9 0 0 1 0       Chapter 41-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                        XX, OOM. 2010
Page 1-46

reviewing       agency's office by the close of business on the last day of the specified
period.

Subsurface Testing - Any procedure that removes material from beneath the ground
surface for the purpose of identifying cultural resources, such as shovel tests, posthole
digger tests and auger borings.

Suitability - The appropriateness of land for production of agricultural or forest products
or for recreation, considering its capability for production, surrounding uses and features
associated with development, compatibility with scenic, cultural, natural and recreation
resources, compatibility among uses, and          other   cultural   factors,   such.   as   roads,
powerlines, dwellings and size of ownership.

Swept Area - Area perpendicular to the wind velocity that a rotor will cover during one
complete rotation.

Tax Lot - An identification number assigned by the Oregon Department of Revenue to
delineate property ownership for the purpose of taxation.

Tentative Plan Map for a Partition - A drawing or diagram prepared from completed
information, in compliance with regulations and ordinances adopted pursuant to O.R.S.
92.046, and regulations of O.R.S. 209.205,         representing defined land, setting forth
intentions in writing, and including relative      mathematical and descriptive data for
preparation of conveyances by metes and bounds descriptions.

Thinning (SMA) - A forest practice intended to create favorable conditions for the
continued growth of trees within an existing stand of trees. A thinning becomes a forest
opening in coniferous forests when the average canopy closure of the overstory layer is
zero or less than 40 percent and the understory layer is less than 60 percent average
canopy closure of trees averaging less than 5 inches diameter at breast height. A
thinning becomes a forest opening in oak woodlands when the total average canopy
closure is less than 25 percent.

Tiedowns - Strapping or cables attached to the mobile home and connected to anchors
embedded in the ground, which secure a mobile home from damage and movement
during high winds.

Total canopy closure (SMA) - For forest practices, the percentage measuring the
degree to which all layers of the tree canopy combine together to block sunlight or
obscure the sky as measured from below.

Total WECS Height - The height of a WECS         measured from ground level to the highest
vertical extension of a WECS.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                           20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                           Page 1-47

Tourist Court - A group of attached or detached buildings containing separate rooms or
living units for the temporary use of automobile travelers, having garage attached or
parking space adjacent to every unit, including auto courts, motels, or motor cottages.

Tract - All contiguous lots, parcels or lot of records under the same ownership.

Travelers Accommodations - Any establishment having rooms rented or kept from rent
on a daily or weekly basis to travelers or transients for a charge or fee paid or to be paid
for rental use or use of facilities.

Travel Trailer - A recreation vehicle that is not used as a permanent residence, is
transportable on public highways by permanently attached axles, and does not exceed
thirty-two (32) feet in length, or eight (8) feet in width, or any equivalent dimension
combination.

Treatment (SMA) - For forest practices, a site-specific operation that carries out the
forest management objectives for an area.

Treaty Rights or Other Rights - Rights reserved by the Indian tribes through the
Treaties of 1855. These include the right of fishing at all usual and accustomed places,
as well as the privilege of pasturing livestock and hunting and gathering on open and
unclaimed lands in common with the citizens of the states.

Tributary Fish Habitat - Streams that are used         by anadromous      or resident fish for
spawning, rearing and/or migration.

Truck Camper - A recreation vehicle, camper, or canopy that fits onto the bed of a pickup
or flat-bed truck, and that is not used as a permanent residence.

Understory (SMA) - For forest practices, the shorter or immature trees below the tall or
mature overstory trees.

Undertaking - Any project, activity, program or development or change in land use that
can result in changes in the character or use of a cultural resource, if any such cultural
resources is located in the area of potential effects. For federal undertakings, the project,
activity, or program must be under the direct or indirect jurisdiction of a federal agency or
licensed or assisted by a federal agency.         Undertakings include new and continuing
projects, activities, or programs and any of their elements [36 CFR 800.16(y)].

Unimproved Lands - Lands that generally do not have developments such as buildings
or structures.

Unique Ecologic Associations - Land areas where species composition, vegetative
characteristics, or systems variations produce ecologic patterns of unusual and rare

                                          29190010                 Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                     2G 00OL 2010 ©
Page 1-48

quality that cannot be observed elsewhere in Wasco County.

Unique Geological Features - Fossil beds, formation type locations, and major structural
features that cannot be observed elsewhere in the State of Oregon.

Unit of Land - An area of contiguous land at least of sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage of an area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are required by this Ordinance; such property shall have frontage on a
public street, or such other access approved by the Commission or Court under
provisions of this ordinance. A unit of land may be:

a.   Asingle lot of record;

b. A lot as defined herein;

c.   Aparcel, as defined herein.

Upland - any area that does not qualify as a wetland because the associated hydrologic
regime is not sufficiently wet to elicit development of vegetation, soils and/or hydrologic
characteristics associated with wetlands.

Use - The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or for
which either land or a building is not or may be occupied or maintained.

Use, Conditional - The term applied to a use which may be permitted by the application
for, and the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit.

Use Permit - A permit allowing a specific use.

Use, Professional - The place of business of a person engaged in a profession such as
accountant, architect, artist, attorney-at-law, professional engineer, land surveyor,
insurance agent, real estate broker, landscape architect, or practitioner of the human
healing arts.

Use, Prohibited - A use not allowed in a zoning district.

Uses        allowed   outright - New   uses and developments   that may occur without being
reviewed by Wasco County to determine if they are consistent with the Wasco County
National Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance.

Utility Facility - Any structure which provides for the transmission or distribution of water,
sewer, fuel, electricity, communications.

Variance - A specific deviation from a part of this Ordinance.

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                 2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, OOK 2010
                                                                                                        Page 1-49

Vehicle Site - The area or place used for parking occupied residential trailers or
recreational vehicles, and may include sewer, water, gas or electrical hook-ups. Places
used to store    unoccupied    recreational   vehicles    are     not considered        to be     recreational
vehicle sites.

Vertical Axis WECS - A WECS which rotor axis is vertical.

Vested right - The right to develop or continue to develop a use, development or
structure that was reviewed and approved pursuant to the Wasco County Land Use and
Development Ordinance.

Veterinary Hospital - An institution providing overnight medical services for sick and
injured animals, and including such related facilities as laboratories, X-ray, and boarding.

Veterinary Office - An office which provides medical services for sick and injured animals
on an out-patient basis.

Walkway - A sidewalk or pathway, including access ways, providing a pedestrian
connection that is improved to County standards, or to other roadway authority
standards, as applicable. See also, Access, Pathway, Sidewalk.

Viewshed - A landscape unit seen from a key viewing area.

Visual Quality Objective (VQO) - Is a set of visual management goals established by the
Forest Service to achieve a desired visual objective. These objectives include retention
and partial retention,   and   others   in the Mt. Hood         and   Gifford    Pinchot    National     Forest
Plans.

Visually Subordinate - A description of the relative visibility of a structure or use where
that structure or use does not noticeably contrast with the surrounding landscape, as
viewed from a specified vantage point.         As opposed to structures which are fully
screened, structures which are visually subordinate may be partially visible. They are not
visually dominant in relation to their surroundings. Visually subordinate forest practices
in the SMA   shall repeat form, line, color, or texture common                  to the natural landscape,
while changes in their qualities of size, amount, intensity, direction, pattern, etc., shall
not dominate the natural landscape
setting.

Waterbody - A lake, wetland, or Class | or Class II stream.

Water-Dependent      - Uses    that absolutely require,     and       cannot exist without,         access     or
proximity to, or siting within, a water body to fulfill their basic purpose. Water-dependent
uses include, but are not limited to, docks, wharfs, piers, dolphins, certain fish and wildlife

                                           2 0 1 aH) 0 i) 4 0                   Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                                  XX, XXXX. 2010
Page 1-50

structures, boat launch facilities, and marinas. Dwellings, parking lots, spoil and dump
sites, roads, restaurants, trails and paths, trailer parks, resorts, and motels are not water-
dependent.

Water-Related - Uses not directly dependent upon access to a water body, but whose
presence facilitates public access to and enjoyment of a water body. In the General
Management Area, water-related uses shall be limited to boardwalks, trails and paths,
observation decks, and interpretive aids, such as kiosks and signs.

WECS - See Wind Energy Conversion System.

WECS Site - The lot or lots upon which a WECS is situated. If abutting lots are used
primarily for WECS, the WECS site encompasses all such abutting lots.

WECS Tower - Subsystem of a WECS that supports the rotor, or other collection device,
above-ground.

Wetlands - Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal circumstances do support,
a prevalence or vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. This does
not include riparian-areas, rivers, streams, and lakes.

Wetlands Functions - The beneficial roles that wetlands serve, including storage,
conveyance, and attenuation of floodwaters and stormwaters; groundwater recharge and
discharge; protection of water quality and reduction of sediment and erosion; production
of waterfowl, game and nongame birds, mammals, and other living resources; protection
of habitat for endangered, threatened, and sensitive species; food chain support for a
broad range of wildlife and fisheries; educational, historical, and archaeological value
protection; and scenic, aesthetic, and recreational amenities.

Wildlife Areas - Areas identified and inventoried by wildlife biologists from several federal
and state resource agencies that have special values including:

a. Areas that are used by wildlife species that have limited or declining populations.

b. Habitats that are highly vulnerable to the effects of new development and uses.

c. Areas that support large numbers of wildlife species.

d. Areas that are essential to the long-term existence of a given          species,   including
   breeding habitat, seasonal ranges, and movement corridors.
e. Habitat of limited availability.

The Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area lists the types

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions                                  9 0 1 0 0 0 i 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                 Page 1-51

of habitat areas inventoried in Table 4, page |-129.     The Columbia River Gorge
Commission has a list on file of the habitat sites.  The Forest Service and Gorge
Commission will provide and update mapped inventory information for County use.

Wind Energy Conversion System (WECS) - A device that converts the kinetic energy in
the wind into electric energy. The WECS includes all parts of the system except
transmission lines.

Wind Energy Facility - One or two WECS                including all parts of the system on the same
tract.

Wind     Measurement Device - An instrument for measuring wind speed and/or direction,
including the tower or pole upon which it is mounted.

Winery     - An     agricultural   facility   used   for processing   grapes   into   wine,    including
laboratories,     processing   areas, offices, and storage areas. A winery is distinct from a
wine sales/tasting room; each of these uses must be explicitly reviewed and approved.

Wine sales/tasting room - A facility that is accessory to a winery and used for tasting
and retail sales of wine, including interior space (e.g., wine bar, sitting room) and
exterior space (e.g., patio, veranda). A wine sales/tasting room shall not be used for
preparing or serving meals or hosting weddings, receptions or other commercial events,
unless allowed, reviewed and approved under the “Commercial Events”, Section 20.300
of this Ordinance. A wine sales/tasting room is distinct from a winery; each of these
uses must be explicitly reviewed and approved.

Woody Plant - A seed plant (gymnosperm or angiosperm) that develops persistent, hard,
fibrous tissues.

Yard - An open space on a lot with a building and bounded on one (1) or more sides by
such building, such space being unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.

Yard, Front - A yard between the front line of the main building (exclusive of steps), and
the front property lire. Front property line is that side of a lot or parcel where access is
obtained from a street or road.                                                  .

Yard, Rear - An open, unoccupied space on the same Jot with the main building, between
the rear line of the main building (exclusive of steps, porches, and accessory buildings),
and the rear line of the lot.

Yard, Side --An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the main building, between
the side wall line of the main building and the side line of the lot.

                                                     20100010
                                                                          Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                                                            XK, XXXXK. 2010
 Page 1-52

 Yurt: Around, domed shelter of cloth or canvas on a collapsible frame. (ORS
 215.283(2)(c))

Chapter 1-Introductory Provisions
                                                             99100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                   DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

          CHAPTER 2 - DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES

SECTION                                                                  PAGE
2.010       PURPOSE                                                      2-4
2.020       REVIEW PROCESS                                               2-41
2.030     APPLYING NEW LESS STRINGENT REGULATIONS                        2-1
            TO DEVELOPMENT APPROVED UNDER PRIOR
            SCENIC AREA REGULATIONS
2.040       COORDINATION OF DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL                         2-2
2.050       WASCO COUNTY APPLICATION AUTHORITY                           2-2
2.060       WHO MAY APPLY                                                2-4
2.070       PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE                                   2-5
2.080       COMPLETENESS                                                 2-5
2.090        FILING FEES                                                 2-6
2.100       NOTICE REQUIREMENTS                                          2-6
2.110       ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION PROCEDURE OF                           2-11
            THE DIRECTOR
2.120       THE DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR                                 2-11
2.130       NOTICE OF A DECISION                                         2-13
2.140       RECORDATION OF CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL                        2-15
2.150       APPEAL FROM DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR                         2-15
2.160       REVIEW OF A DECISION OF THE PLANNING                         2-16
            COMMISSION
2.170       REVIEW BY THE COUNTY GOVERNING BODY                          2-17
2.180       HEARING PROCEDURE                                            2-18
2.190       ESTABLISHMENT OF PARTY STATUS                                2-24
2.200       OFFICIAL NOTICE                                              2-22
2.210       GENERAL CONDUCT OF ALL HEARINGS;                             2-22
            ADMINISTRATIVE, QUASI-JUDICIAL OR LEGISLATIVE
2.220       APPROVAL, REJECTION, MODIFICATION                            2-23
2.230       APPEALS TO THE GORGE COMMISSION                              2-23
2.240       EXPIRATION OF APPROVALS                                      2-24

                                    90190010
                                         Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
2.250                    EXTENSION OF VALIDITY OF LAND USE          2-25
                         APPROVALS
2.300                     PLANNING COMMISSION RULES                 2-26

                                                         20100010
Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                                Page 2-1

                CHAPTER 2 - DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES

SECTION 2.010        Purpose

The purpose of this Chapter is to establish procedures for approval of development
required by this Ordinance, appeals from aggrieved persons and parties, and review
of any decision by a higher authority.

SECTION 2.020        Review Process

An application for Type Il, Ill, or IV approval required by Wasco County shall be
processed by Administrative Action, quasi-judicial Public Hearing or, Legislative
Public Hearing pursuant to applicable sections of this Ordinance.    Quasi-judicial
Public Hearings shall be held on all applications for a permit or approval required by
these regulations,    provided that hearings shall not be held in those matters the
Director has authority to act upon, unless an appeal be taken.

SECTION     2.030    Applying New Less-Stringent Regulations to Development
                     Approved Under Prior Scenic Area Regulations (GMA & SMA)

A landowner may submit a land use application to alter conditions of approval for an
existing use or structure approved under prior Scenic Area regulations (e.g.,
Columbia   River     Gorge     National   Scenic   Area   Final    Interim     Guidelines,    original
Management Pian), subject to the following standards:

A. The applicant(s) shall apply for the same development that was reviewed in the
   original decision.

B. The development shall remain in its current location.

C. The application shall be reviewed by Wasco County and shall be governed by all
   applicable application and review procedures indicated in this Chapter.

D. The entire development shall be reviewed to ensure that it would fully comply
   with all the current criteria in Chapter 14 (i.e., land use, treaty rights, scenic
   resources,    cultural    resources,   recreation   resources    and      natural   resources)    as
   well as any other applicable review criteria.

E. The new decision shall supersede the original decision.

F. The new decision may remove or revise original conditions of approval or add
   new conditions of approval to ensure full compliance with ail the current criteria.

                                            20100010        Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                          XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-2

SECTION 2.040         Coordination of Development Approval

A. The Director shall be responsible for the coordination of a development
   application and decision-making procedures and shall approve developments
   when proper application is made and the proposed development is in
   compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance, the Wasco County
   Comprehensive Plan, and the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge
   National Scenic Area.

    The coordination of development application shall include the opportunity for the
    applicant to apply for all permits necessary for a development project at one
    time. The consolidated procedure shall be subject to the time limitations set out
    in this chapter.

    After an application has been submitted, no building permit application for the
    proposed use shall be signed until final action has been taken and all required
    conditions have been met. Following final action on the application, the issuance
    of zoning approval on a building permit application shall be in conformance with
    the ‘zoning regulations of this Ordinance, and any conditions of development
    approval.

SECTION 2.050 Wasco County Application Authority

The Following includes only the Wasco County Application Authority. All quasi —
judicial appeals and legislative actions decided upon by the Columbia River Gorge
Commission shall be governed by the Management Plan for the Columbia River
Gorge National Scenic Area.

A. The Director shall have the authority to review the following applications for Type
     ll Administrative      Actions,    and   shall   follow   the   procedure   provided   by   this
     Ordinance to accomplish such review.

     1.    Basic Provisions (Chapter 3)

     2.    Uses permitted subject to Expedited Review (Chapter 3).

    3.     Uses permitted Subject to Additional or Referenced Standards (Chapter 3)

    4.     Conditional Use Reviews (Chapter 5)

     5. Administrative Variances (Chapter 6)

    6. Temporary Use Permits (Chapter 8)

    7.     Non-conforming Use Reviews (Chapter 13)

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                             20100010
XX, OO 2010
                                                                                               Page 2-3

 8.   Scenic Area Reviews (Chapter 14)

 9.   Emergency/Disaster Response (Chapter 16)

 10.Partition Approvals, except as provided for in 2.050(B), re-plats and property
      line adjustments. (Chapter 21)

 11.Permitted uses which require the interpretation or the exercise of policy or
    legal judgment.

. The following applications for Type III and Type IV Quasi Judicial and Legislative
  Actions shall be heard by the Planning Commission, pursuant to Sections 2.100,
  2.180, 2.190, 2.200, 2.210, and 2.220 of this Ordinance:

 Type Hl Actions

 1. Appeals     of   Decision   of   Director   made   pursuant        to   2.050(A)     and      any
      ministerial action of the Director.

 2.   Matters which the Director elects not to review, pursuant to 2.050(A).

 3.   Revocation of Conditional Use Permits (Chapter 5)

 4.   Variances (Chapter 6)

 5.   Recreational Vehicle Parks (Chapter 17)

 6.   Cluster Developments (Chapter 18)

 7.   Preliminary Partitions involving private or public road approval (Chapter 21) -

 8.   Subdivisions (Chapter 21)

 9.   Private Road Approvals (Chapter 21)

 Type IV Actions

 10.Recommendation to the County Governing Body on a Legislative or Quasi-
      Judicial Plan Amendment (Chapter 9)

 11.Recommendation to the County Governing                  Body on Zone         Change     and/or
    Ordinance Amendments (Chapter 9)

 12.Recommendation         to the    County     Governing      Body    on    street    dedications
 (Chapter 21)                                          .

                                                              20100010
                                                           Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                       XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-4

C. The following application for Type Ill and Type IV Quasi Judicial and Legislative
   Actions shall be heard by the County Governing Body, pursuant to Sections
   2.100, 2.180 2.190, 2.200, 2.210, and 2.220 of this Ordinance:

    Type Ill Actions

     1. Appeals of a Planning Commission Decision made pursuant to 2.050(B)(1) -
           (9) .
    Type IV Actions

    2.     Plan Amendments (Chapter 9)

    3.     Zone Change and Ordinance Amendments (Chapter 9)

    4, Street Dedications (Chapter 21)

SECTION 2.060 Who May Apply

A. Development request may be initiated by one or more of the following:

     1. All owner(s) of the property which is the subject of the application; or

    2. The         purchaser(s)    of such   property who      submits   a duly executed       written
           contract, or copy thereof, which has been           recorded with the Wasco         County
           Clerk; or

           The purchaser(s) of such property who submits a duly executed                       earnest
           money agreement stating the land use action proposal; or

           A lessee in possession of such property who submits written consent of the
           owner(s) to make such application; or

           Resolution of the County Governing Body; or

           County       Road   Department,   (when   dealing   with   land   involving   public works
           projects).

    Any of the above may be represented by an agent                           who    submits   written
    authorization by his principal to make such application.

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures                                      Y) 0 1 0 c 0 1 0
XX, OOKK 2010
                                                                                           Page 2-5

SECTION 2.070        Pre-Application Conference

An applicant may request a pre-application conference prior to submitting a request
For development approval. The purpose of the conference shail be to acquaint the
applicant with the substantive and procedural requirements of this Ordinance,
provide for an exchange of information regarding applicable elements of the
Comprehensive Plan, the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area, and development requirements, arrange such technical and design
assistance as will aid the applicant, and to identify policies and regulations that
create opportunities or pose significant constraints for the proposed development.

SECTION      2.080   Completeness

A. Complete Application Required:
   Any proposed use, development or structure, including expedited review uses,
   shall be reviewed according to the standards in effect on the date an applicant
   submitted a complete land use application. A complete application is one the
   Director determines contains:

   4. A complete application form, including all applicable information and review
      criteria listed on the application form, the Complete Application Submittal
      requirements of Section 14.020, and any additional information indicated
      throughout this ordinance; and

   2. The required fee, pursuant to Section 2.090.

   3.   Completeness Time Frame

        a.   If an application for a permit is incomplete, the applicant shall be notified
             in writing of exactly what information is missing within 30 days of receipt of
             the application and be allowed to submit the missing information. The
             application shall be deemed complete upon receipt of all of the missing
             information.

        b. On the 181st day after first being submitted, the application is void if the
           applicant has been notified of the missing information as required under
           subsection a. of this section and has not submitted information.

B. Quasi Judicial Time Limitations

   After deeming a quasi judicial application listed in Section 2.050 complete, the
   Director shall act on or cause a hearing to be held on the application within the
   time requirements of ORS. 215.427 unless such time limitation is extended with
   the consent of the applicant.

                                                                        29190010
                                                         Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                     XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-6

SECTION 2.090           Filing Fees

A. Any application filed with the Planning Department shall be accompanied by the
   appropriate filing fee to reimburse the County for processing costs attendant
   upon the application.

B. Fees shall not exceed the actual or average cost of providing the service.

C. Any and all fees shall be established by County Governing Body Order,                            be
   separate from this Ordinance, and may be revised whenever necessary.

D. A filing fee may be waived by the County Governing                     Body       following     the
   procedures indicated in the current fee schedule.

E. All fees received         pursuant to this Section     shall be deposited       in the County
   General Fund.

F.    Fees are not transferable or refundable.

SECTION 2.100           Notice Requirements

Citizen and Agency Involvement.             The County shall provide opportunities for public
and        agency   input in the planning   process.   To ensure that there is a coordinated
effort to permit land use projects, notice of applications for development approval
shall be sent to interested agencies and departments such as County departments,
sheriff and fire departments, school districts, utility companies, and the applicable
city departments for those municipalities within Wasco County.               Affected
jurisdictions and agencies could include the Gorge Commission,        Forest Service,
Department of Environmental Quality, the Oregon Department of Transportation,
Wasco County Transportation Network, and other applicable local, state or federal
agencies & Treaty Tribes.

If the subject property is being considered for a plan amendment or zone change,
notice of receipt of the application shall be provided to the Oregon Department of
Transportation.

A. Type II - Administrative Action

      4.    Notice Recipients - Notice for an Administrative Action, pursuant to 2.050(A)
            shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) days prior to a decision to the following:

            a. The applicant and all owners or contract purchasers               of record      of the
               property which is the subject of the application;

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures                             2   4] 4    0 0 0 » | 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                         Page 2-7

  b. All owners of property and agencies as stipulated by the notification matrix
       (Table 2-1);

  c. Any affected governmental agency             or      public    district   within   whose
     boundary the subject property lies;

  d. The city within whose recognized Urban Area                   Boundary      the    subject
     property lies or whose facilities may be impacted;

  e.   Other persons as may be clearly and necessarily affected by the result of
       the development request and as required due to the presence of Scenic,
       Natural or Cultural Resources.

  f.   The USDA Forest Service, the Columbia River Gorge Commission,                         the
       State of Oregon, and the four Indian tribal governments.

  g. Any individuals or groups having a subscription to receive notice of all
     planning actions taken by the Wasco County Planning and Development
     Office.

  h. Owners of a public use airport of any land use action within 5,000 feet of
       the side or end   of a "visual airport" runway,       or within    10,000 feet of an
       “instrument airport” runway, unless the action involves structures less than
       thirty-five (35) feet tall outside the runway approach surface.

  i.   For an expedited review the notice shall be the preliminary decision
       pursuant to Sections 2.110 and 2.120. . Written comments on the
       proposed development will be received within 12 days from the date a
       notice is sent from the four Indian tribal governments, the Gorge
       Commission, the Forest Service, all landowners within 200 feet of the
       subject parcel, and any other interested parties. If written comments are
       received from any of the above described, the comments will be included
       in the review and a new decision with appeal! period will be issued
       pursuant to Sections 2.110 and 2.120. If no comments are received from
       these entities, the decision will be considered final unless appealed by
       another party pursuant to Section 2.150.

. Contents of Notice - Notice for a Type Il - Administrative Action. shall be filed
  with the Director and shall include the following information:

  a.   The location, title of the request and the date such notice was sent;

  b.   The general location of the subject property and legal description;

  c. The legal owner of record and the name of applicant seeking review;

                                                                   29100010
                                                       Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures -
                                                                                XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-8

           d. The present zoning of the subject property and applicable Ordinances and
                sections that apply to the application at issue;

           e.   The nature of the application;

           f.   The deadline for filing comments on the request.

           g-   That failure of an issue to be raised in a hearing, in person or by letter, or
                failure to provide statements or evidence sufficient to afford the decision
                maker an opportunity to respond          to the   issue   precludes   appeal     to the
                board based on that issue;

           h. The     name    of a local    government     representative     to contact       and   the
                telephone number where additional information may be obtained;

           i.   That a copy of the application, all documents and evidence submitted by
                or on behalf of the applicant and applicable criteria are available for
                inspection at no cost and will be provided at reasonable cost;

           j.   That a copy of the staff report will be available for inspection at no cost at
                least seven days prior to the hearing and will be provided at reasonable
                cost; and

           k.   General explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony and
                the procedure for conduct of hearings.

           |.   For expedited reviews,       the notice shall also include a copy               of the
                application which shall      only be required to be sent to the                  Gorge
                Commission,    Forest Service and four Indian Tribal Governments.

    3.     Additional Notice Criteria

           a. The County shall determine if a wildlife management plan as required in
              14.600(C)(5), or rare plant protection and rehabilitation plan as required in
              44.600(D)(5) is needed within seven (7) days of the close of the fifteen
                (15) day public comment period.

           b.   For proposed     uses   or developments      where    a cultural   resource     survey
                (Reconnaissance or historic) is required to be performed by the
                Commission in accordance with 14.500(B), the survey shall be completed
                by the close of the fifteen (15) day public comment period.

           c. All cultural resource surveys shall be forwarded to the State Historic
              Preservation Office and Indian Tribes for a thirty (30) day cultural resource
              review period in accordance with Section 14.500(C)(3).

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                            29100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                             Page 2-3

          d. Within seven (7) days of the close of the thirty (30) day cultural resource
               comment period, a determination of need for an evaluation of significance,
               as provided for in 14.500(D), shall be made by the County, in consultation
               with Tribes and State Historic Preservation Office.

          e. An affidavit of all publication and mailing notices shall be made part of the
               record.

B. Type lll - Quasi Judicial Public Hearing

     4.   Notice Recipients - At least twenty (20) days prior to the date of a
          quasi-judicial public hearing listed hearing under 2.050(B)(1) — (9) and ten
          (10) days prior to the date of a public hearing listed under 2.050(C)(1), notice
          shall be sent or provided to the same list indicated in (A)(1) above unless
          otherwise specified, in addition to the following:

          a.   Notice shall be given by publication in the official newspaper of Wasco
               County at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of a quasi-judicial public
               hearing listed under 2.050(B)(1) — (9) and ten (10) days prior to the date
               of a hearing listed under 2.050(C)(1).

          b. Notice of Review by the County Governing Body pursuant to 2.050(C)(1)
             shall also be posted in at least two (2) different public locations and
             published in the official newspaper of Wasco County at least ten (10) days
             prior to the date set for the hearing.

     2.   Contents of Notice - In addition to the Contents of the Notice listed in (A)(2)
          above, with the exception of (f) & (g), the notice for a quasi judicial public
          hearing listed under 2.060(B) (1) — (9) and (C)(1) shall also include the date,
          time and place of hearing and the name of the hearing body;

     3. Additional Notice Criteria - The provisions of (A)(3) above shall be applicable
        to quasi judicial public hearings listed under 2.050(B)(1) — (9) and
        2.050(C)(1).

C.    Type IV - Legislative Hearing Notice

     4.   Planning Commission Notice Requirements — Notice shall be sent at least
          fifteen (15) days prior to the date of a legislative hearing.

          a.   Recipients to be determined by Wasco County Governing Body in addition
               to the following agencies:

               (1) The USDA Forest Service, the Columbia River Gorge Commission, the
                   State of Oregon, and the four Indian tribal governments

                                                                                20100010
                                                           Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                       XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-10

                 (2) All applicable local, state, and federal natural resource agencies

                 (3) State Historic Preservation Office

                 (4) Historic Columbia River Highway Advisory Committee

                 (5) Any individuals or groups having a subscription to receive notice of all
                    planning actions taken by the Wasco County Planning and
                    Development Office.

                 (6) Owners of a public use airport of any land use action within 5,000 feet
                     of the side or end of a "visual airport" runway, or within 10,000 feet of
                     an "instrument airport" runway, unless the action involves structures
                     less than thirty-five (35) feet tall outside the runway approach surface.

            b. Notice shall be published in accordance with (B)(1)(a) above.

     2. County Governing Body Notice Requirements — Notice shall be sent at least
        ten (10) days prior to the date of a legislative hearing.

            a.   In addition to agencies listed in (C)(1)(a) above, excluding recipients
                 determined by Wasco County, recipients shall include parties of record
                 who:

                 (1) have submitted written testimony,

                 (2) provided testimony at the Planning Commission,

                 (3) or those who have requested in writing to receive notice

            b. Notice shall be published in accordance with (B)(1)(a) and (b) above..

D. Transportation Related Notice

     4.     Notice of a legislative hearing will be sent to public agencies and local
            jurisdictions (including those providing transportation facilities. and services)
            that may be impacted by the proposed action.           Affected agencies and
            jurisdictions   could   include   the   Department   of   Environmental   Quality,   the
            Oregon Department of Aviation, cities withir. Wasco County, and neighboring
            jurisdictions.

    2.      Notice of a legislative or quasi-judicial hearing for any proposal that includes
            a new transportation facility or improvement, and where these facilities or
            improvements include or may impact a collector or arterial street, will be sent
            to the Oregon Department of Transportation and any special interest
            transportation groups as appropriate. Special interest transportation groups

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures                                      —- 20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                          Page 2-11

        could include trucking organizations, bicycle and pedestrian interest groups,
        and public transit providers. Information that should be conveyed with the
        notice includes the following:

        a.   Project location

        b. Proposed land use action

        c.   Location of project access point(s)

SECTION      2.110   Administrative Action Procedure of the Director

A. Within the time period specified in Section 2.080, the Director shall:

   1.   Publish or otherwise file notice pursuant to Section 2.100;

   2.   Prepare findings of fact and conclusions of law; and

   3.   Prepare a decision to approve or deny the request.           Approvals may include
        conditions     considered    necessary     to   assure    conformance         with     the
        Comprehensive Plan and the Management Plan                 for the    Columbia       River
        Gorge National Scenic Area pursuant to 2.120(C).

B. If the application does not meet the criteria or if written objections are received,
   or if the applicant or the Director so desires for any reason, the Director may
   schedule any application made under 2.050(A) for public hearing before the
   Planning Commission, pursuant to 2.050(B)(2), and the Commission shall decide
   the matter, as if the matter were listed under 2.050(B).

SECTION 2.120        The Decision of the Director

A. In making a decision, the Director shall consider the following:

   1. The burden of proof is placed upon the petitioner seeking an action pursuant
      to the provisions of this Chapter.   Unless otherwise provided for in this
        Chapter, such burden shall be to prove:

        a. The proposed action fully complies with the applicable map elements of
           the relevant Comprehensive Plan and Management Plan for the Columbia
           River Gorge National Scenic Area and also the goals and policies of the
           applicable plans.

        b. The proposed action is in accordance with the applicable criteria of this
           Ordinance.

                                                                                20100010
                                                         Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                     XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-12

     2. Written comments from parties or other persons.

B. In all cases, the Director shall enter findings and conclusions to justify their
   decision.

C. The following limitations shall be applicable to conditional approvals:

     1. Conditions shall be fulfilled within the time limitations set forth in the approval
            thereof, or, if no specific time has been set forth, within a reasonable time.

            Such conditions shall be reasonably conceived to fulfill public needs
            emanating from the proposed land use as set forth in the application in the
            following respects:

            a.   Protection   of the   public from the potentially deleterious               effects of the
                 proposed use; or

            b. Fulfillment of the       need   for   public       service   demands     created     by the
               proposed use.

            c.   Promote the public health, safety and welfare and provide protection and
                 enhancement     of the scenic, natural, cultural and           recreation    resources in
                 the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

            The conditional approval may require the owner of the property to sign a
            contract with the County for enforcement of the conditions. Such contract
            shall be executed within thirty (30) days after conditional approval is granted,
            provided, however, that the Director may grant time extensions due to
            practical difficulty. The Director shall have the authority to execute such
            contracts on behalf of the County. If a contract is required by a conditional
            approval, no zoning approval on a building permit application shall be issued
            for the use covered by the application until the executed contract is recorded
            on the real property records of Wasco County and filed in the County Journal.
             Such contract shall not restrict the power of subsequent administrative
            action, with or without conditions.      Such contracts shall be enforceable
            against the signing parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns by Wasco                        _
            County by appropriate action in law or suit in equity for the benefit of public
            health, safety and welfare.

            Failure to fulfill any conditions of approval within the time limitations imposed
            may be grounds for initiation of Administrative Action or revocation of
            approval by the Director.

            A bond, in a form acceptable to the Director or, upon appeal or review, by the

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures                     2    2 1   4] 0 0 { 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                           Page 2-13

          Commission or County Governing Body or a cash deposit from the property
          owner(s) or contract purchaser(s) in such amount as will assure compliance
          with the conditions imposed pursuant to this section may be required. Such
          bond or deposit shall be posted at the same time the contract containing the
          conditions of approval is filed with the Wasco County Clerk.

D. If an application is denied by the Director, and no higher authority reverses such
   denial upon appeal, no new application for the same or substantially similar
   action shall be filed for at least twelve (12) months from the date of the final
   order of the action denying the application.

SECTION 2.130         Notice of a Decision

A. Notice of a decision by pursuant to 2.050(A), (B)(1) — (9) and (C)(1) shail be filed
   in the records of the Director and also mailed to the following:

     1. The applicant(s) and all owners or contract purchasers                of record     of the
        property which is the subject of the application.

          All owners of property as stipulated by the notification matrix (Table 2-1). For
          an expedited review, the required notification area shall be limited to
          landowners within 200 feet of the perimeter of the subject parcel.

          Any affected governmental agency or public district within whose boundary
          the subject property lies.

          The city within whose recognized Urban Area Boundary the subject property
          lies.

          The USDA Forest Service, the Columbia River Gorge Commission, the State
          of Oregon, and the four Indian tribal governments.

          Any individuals or groups having a subscription to receive notice of all
          planning actions taken by the Wasco County Planning and Development
          Office.

B.   Notice of a decision shall contain:

     1.   Identification of the application;

          Other information pertinent to the application, if any;

          The date of the filing of the decision;

          Notice that any party may appeal an expedited review decision within twelve

                                      99190010            Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                      XX, OOKK 2010
Page 2-14

            (12) days and all other review decisions within fifteen (15) days from the date
            such notice was sent by filing a timely statement with the Director.

C. The decision of the Director pursuant to 2.050(A) shall be final unless an appeal
   from an aggrieved person is received by the Director within twelve (12) days for
   an expedited review decision and fifteen (15) days for all other review decisions
   after the filing of a decision on an Administrative Action or unless the
   Commission or County Governing Body on its own motion, orders review for an
   expedited review decision within twelve (12) days and all other review decisions
   within fifteen (15) days after the filing of the proposed decision.

D. Notice of a legislative decision shall be filed in the records of the Director and
   also mailed to the following:

    1. Any affected governmental agency or public district within whose boundary
       the subject property lies;

    2. The city within whose recognized Urban Area Boundary the subject property
            lies;

    3.      The USDA Forest Service, the Columbia River Gorge Commission, the State
            of Oregon, and the four Indian tribal governments.

    4. Any individuals or groups having a subscription to receive notice of all
       planning actions taken by the Wasco County Planning and Development
       Office.

    5,      Parties of record who:

            (a) have submitted written testimony; or

            (b) provided testimony at either the Planning Commission or County
                Governing Body hearing; or

            (c) those who have         requested in writing to receive the decision.

E. Notice of a decision shall contain:

    1.      Identification of the application;

    2.      Other information pertinent to the application, if any;

   ‘4.      The date of the filing of the decision by the Wasco County Governing Body,

    5.      Notice that any party may appeal a decision within thirty (30) days from the
            date such notice was sent by filing a timely statement with the Columbia River

igcekeoi            dial Approval Procedures                 D C 1 0 0 0 q 0
                                                                                            Page 2-15

        Gorge Commission.

SECTION     2.140    Recordation of Conditions of Approval

All conditions attached to approval of uses shall be recorded in the County deeds
and records to ensure notice of the conditions to successors in interest.

SECTION     2.150    Appeal from Decision of the Director

A. Any action taken by the Director or the Director's designee in the interpretation,
   administration or enforcement of this ordinance shall be subject to review by the
   Planning Commission.

B. Any party may appeal a decision of the Director relative to an Administrative
   Action. In the conduct of a hearing, the Approving Authority shall establish the
   appellant as a party or the appeal shall not be heard and the contested decision
   shall become final. For expedited reviews, party status shall be given to any
   person.

C. The Approving Authority may review the action of the Director upon receipt of a
   Notice of Appeal as prescribed in this section. For the purpose of this section,
   an appeal shall be filed with the Director no later than twelve (12) days for an
   expedited review and fifteen (15) days for all other reviews following the date of
   the decision or action of the Director. The decision of the Director may also be
   reviewed by the County Governing Body upon its own motion passed within
   twelve (12) days for an expedited review and (15) fifteen days for all other
   reviews following the date of the written decision sought to be reviewed if no
   appeal is filed. County Governing Body review shall be conducted pursuant to
   Section 2.170.

D. Every Notice of Appeal shall contain:

   4. Areference to the application sought to be appealed.

   2.   Astatement as to how the petitioner qualifies as a party.

   3. The specific grounds relied upon in the petition request for review.

   4. The date      of the final decision of the action.

   5. The required fee, unless waived pursuant to Section 2.090.

E. Members of the Approving Authority shall neither:

                                2   f at 0 C G 1 0         Chapter 2-Development Approvai Procedures
                                                                                       XX, OK   2010
Page 2-16

     4. Communicate, directly or indirectly, with any party or his representatives in
        connection with any issue involved except upon notice and opportunity for all
        parties to participate; nor

     2. Take notice of any communication, reports, staff memoranda, or other
        materials prepared in connection with the particular case unless the parties
            are afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed.

F. Appeal of an administrative decision to the Planning Commission shail be “de
     novo": i.e., conducted as a new hearing before the public.

G. The review shall be accomplished in accordance with the Rules of Procedure
   adopted by the County Governing Body. The Approving Authority may continue
   its hearing from time to time to gather additional evidence or to consider the
   application fully.  Unless otherwise provided by the Approving Authority no
   additional notice need be given of continued hearings if the matter be continued
   to a certain date.

H. All evidence offered and not objected to shall be received unless excluded by the
   Approving Authority on its own motion. Evidence received at any hearing shall
   be of the quality that reasonable persons rely upon in the conducting of their
   everyday affairs. Evidence shall be received and notice may be taken of those
     facts in a manner       similar to that provided   for in contested   cases   before state
     administrative agencies pursuant to Oregon Revised Statutes 183.450 except as
     otherwise provided for herein.

I.   The Approving Authority shall render a decision, may affirm, reverse or modify
     the action of a lesser authority and may reasonably grant approval subject to
     conditions necessary to carry out the Comprehensive Plan and Management
     Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area pursuant to 2.120(C).

     4.     For all cases the Approving Authority shall make a decision based on findings
            and conclusions from the record before it as justification for its action.

     2. The Director shall send a copy of the Approving Authority's decision to all
        parties to the matter and a copy of such decision shall be filed in the records
        of the Director.

SECTION 2.160          Review of a Decision of the Planning Commission

Fifteen (15) days from the date of a final decision of the Planning Commission, the
decision shall become effective unless review is sought pursuant to this Section.

A. Review of the decision of the Planning Commission:

Chapter a-Development Approval Procedures                           9 6 1 0 6 0 1 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                      Page 2-17

   1. Shall be made by the County Governing Body, pursuant to Section 2.170,
      upon any party filing a Notice of Review with the Director within fifteen (15)
      days from the date of the final decision sought to be reviewed; or

        May be made by the County Governing Body, pursuant to Section. 2.170, on
        its own motion passed within fifteen (15) days from the date of the final
        decision sought to be reviewed.

B. Notice of the time and place of the review together with any Notice of Review
   filed shall meet the requirements of Section 2.100, Notice Requirements.

C. Every Notice of Review shall contain:

   1. A reference to the decision sought to be reviewed;

   2. A statement as to how the petitioner qualifies as a party;

   3. The specific grounds relied upon in the petition request for review; and

   4.   The date of the decision sought to be reviewed.

D.A Notice of Review shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth on the fee
   schedule established by the County Governing Body.

   1.   if the Court does not desire a transcript, the applicant or any party may
        request a transcript. Any such transcript request shall be paid for by the
        person requesting it. The estimated cost of the transcript shall be specified
        by the Director. Within five (5) days of such estimate, the person filing the
        Notice of Review shall deposit the estimated cost with the Director. Any
        deposit excess shall be returned to the depositing person. Failure to comply
        with this subsection shall be a jurisdictional defect.

        if a transcript is desired by the Court, the costs shall be borne by Wasco
        County.

SECTION     2.170   Review by the County Governing Body

A. The review of the decision of the Planning Commission by the County Governing
   Body shall be conducted as a "de novo" hearing, including but not limited to the
   record established at the Planning Commission level.

B. Review by the County Governing Body upon appeal by a party shail be limited to
   the grounds relied upon in the petition request for review.

                       9 6 1   0 C¢ 0 10         .   Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                 XX, XXXX 2070
Page 2-18

C. The County Governing Body may remand the matter to the Planning
   Commission if it is satisfied that testimony or other evidence could not have been
   presented at the hearing before the Pianning Commission.           In deciding such
   remand, the County Governing Body shall consider and adopt findings and
   conclusions respecting:

          . Prejudice to parties;
    =

    2.      Convenience or availability of evidence at the time of the initial hearing;

    3. Surprise to opposing parties;

    4.      Date notice was sent to other parties as to an attempt to admit; and

    5. The competency,              relevancy   and   materiality of the proposed   testimony or
       other evidence.

E. Only those members of the County Governing Body reviewing the entire record
   may act on the matter reviewed. The agreement of at least two (2) members is
   necessary to amend, reverse, or remand the action of the Planning Commission.
    Upon failure of at least two (2) members to agree, the decision of the Approving
   Authority below shall stand.

F. The Notice of a Decision shall meet the requirements of Section 2.130.

SECTION 2.180           Hearing Procedure

A. In the conduct of a public hearing, the Approving Authority shall have the
   authority, pursuant to Rules of Procedure approved by the County Goveming
     Body, to:

     1.     Determine who qualifies as a party.

    2.      Regulate the course, sequence and decorum of the hearing.

    3.      Dispose of procedural requirements or similar matters.

    4.      Rule on offers of proof and relevancy of evidence and testimony.

    5.      Impose reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses heard and set
            reasonable time limits for oral presentation and rebuttal testimony.

    6. Take such other action               appropriate   for conduct   commensurate    with the
       nature of the hearing.

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                        20100010
XX, OOK 2010
                                                                                              Page 2-19

   7.   Grant, deny, or in appropriate cases, attach conditions pursuant to 2.120(C)
        of this Chapter to the matter being heard.

B. Order of Procedure:       Unless otherwise specified, the Approving Authority, in the
   conduct of a hearing, shall:

   4. Announce the nature and purpose of the hearing and summarize the rules for
      conducting the hearing.

   2.   Recognize parties.

   3. Ask for disclosure of any          potential   conflicts     of interest by those       on the
      decision-making body.

   4. Ask parties to the hearing if there is a challenge to the ability of any member
      to make an unbiased decision on the case.

   5.   Request the Director or their designee to present a summary of staff findings
        and recommendation, if any, and explain any graphic or pictorial displays
        which are part of the staff report.

   6.   Testimony

        a.   De Novo Hearings:

             (1) Allow the   applicant   to be   heard    first,   on   their own    behalf or by
                representative.

             (2) Allow parties or witnesses      in favor of the applicant's proposal to be
                heard.

             (3) Allow other parties or witnesses to be heard next in the same manner
                 as in the case of the applicant.

             (4) Upon failure of any party to appear, the Approving Authority may take
                 into consideration written material submitted by such party.

             (5) Allow only the applicant to offer rebuttal testimony. The scope and
                 extent of rebuttal shall be limited to issues raised during testimony and
                 shall not be used to introduce new evidence.

        b. Quasi Judicial Appeal to County Governing Body:

             (1) Allow the appellant     to be    heard   first,   on   their own    behalf    or by
                 representative.

                                  9100010                    Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                         XX, XXXX 2010
 Page 2-20

              (2) Allow parties or witnesses in favor of the appellant to be heard.

              (3) Allow other parties or witnesses to be heard next in the same manner
                  as in the case of the applicant.

              (4) Upon failure of any party to appear, the Approving Authority may take
                  into consideration written material submitted by such party.

              (5) Allow only the appellant to offer rebuttal testimony. The scope and
                  extent of rebuttal shall be limited to issues raised during testimony and
                  shall not be used to introduce new evidence.

     11.Close the hearing to public testimony. Questions may be asked at this time
        by the Approving Authority. Questions by the Director or his designee may
        be allowed by the Approving Authority upon request.

     12.At the conclusion of the hearing, the Approving Authority shall either make a
         decision and state findings which may incorporate findings proposed by any
         party, or the Director, or may take the matter under advisement.         The
        Approving Authority may request proposed findings and conclusions from any
         party to the hearing.

     13.The Approving Authority, before finally adopting findings and conclusions,
        may circulate the same in proposed form to the parties for written comment.
        All actions taken by the Approving Authority pursuant to adopting findings and
        conclusions shall be made a part of the record. The decision, findings and
        conclusions which support the decision of the Approving Authority shall be
        final when signed by the Approving Authority. For the purpose of signing the
        decision, findings and conclusions, the Approving Authority may be:

         a. Planning Commission Decision:      Either the Chairman        of the   Planning
            Commission or the Director of Planning or both.

         b. County Governing Body Decision: All members of the County Governing
            Body present and deciding upon the application.

    14.Within thirty (30) days of the date of public hearing the Approving Authority
       shall grant, deny or, in appropriate cases, pursuant to 2.120(C), attach such
       conditions as may be necessary to carry out the Comprehensive Plan in
       approving the proposal being heard. The Director may extend the thirty (30)
       day deadline for rendering a decision upon consent of the applicant. The
       Director shall notify parties of the decision by mail.

    15.The Approving Authority shall render a decision, may affirm, reverse or
       modify the action of a lesser authority, and may reasonably grant approval

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures                      20100010
XX, OOK 2010
                                                                                              Page 2-21

        subject to the conditions necessary to carry out the Comprehensive                       Plan
        pursuant to 2.120(C) of this Ordinance.

        a.   For all cases the Approving Authority shall make a decision based on the
             record before it as justification for its decision.

        b. The Director shall send a notice of the Approving Authority's decision to all
           parties to the matter and a copy of such decision shall be filed in the
             records of the Director pursuant to Section 2.130, Notice of a Decision.

SECTION 2.190        Establishment of Party Status

A. In order to have standing under this Chapter, a person shall be recognized as a
   party by the Approving Authority.

   Party status, when       recognized by the Approving Authority, establishes the right
   of the person to be heard, either orally or in writing and to pursue a review or
   appeal under this Chapter.

   A request for establishment of party status may be made at least ten (10) days
   before the date set for a quasi-judicial public hearing by any person who files a
   written statement regarding the application being considered.

   Seven (7) or more days prior to the date set for a public hearing, the Director
   shall mail the applicant any statements that have been filed and a copy of the
   staff report.

   With respect to applications under 2.050(B), all persons may submit written
   comments or provide oral testimony prior to the close of a Planning Commission
   de-novo hearing. These persons shall be automatically given party status.

   With      respect to applications    under 2.050(C)(1),      the Approving Authority may
   authorize     a person    to have   party   status,   at any time    prior to the close       of a
   hearing, if that person is not otherwise a party, as defined by Section 1.200 of
   this Ordinance.

   A request for establishment of party status for an Administrative decision
   pursuant to 2.050(A) of this Chapter shall be made by filing a written statement
   within a ten (10) day notification period.       Such statement shall include:

   4.   The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the statement;

   2.   How the person       qualifies as a party; as defined          in Section    1.200 of this
        Ordinance; and

                                       2¢100010
                                                             Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                         XX, XXX 2010
Page 2-22

    3. Comments which the party wishes to make with respect to the application
       under consideration.

F. Any party may appeal a decision of the Director relative to an Administrative
   Action. In the conduct of a hearing, the Approving Authority shall establish the
   appellant as a party or the appeal shall not be heard and the contested decision
   shall become final.

SECTION 2.200         Official Notice

A. The Approving Authority may take official notice of the following:

     1. All facts which are judicially noticeable.      Judicially noticed facts shall be
         stated and made part of the record.

    2. The Comprehensive Plan and other officially adopted plans, ordinances, .
       rules and regulations of Wasco County and comprehensive plans and
            implementing regulations of cities within Wasco County.

B. Matters officially noticed need not be established by evidence and may              be
   considered by the Approving Authority in the determination of the application.

SECTION 2.210         General Conduct of All Hearings; Administrative,
                      Quasi-Judicial or Legislative.

The following rules apply to the general conduct of the County hearings:

A. No person shall be disorderly, abusive, or disruptive of the orderly conduct of the
   hearing.

B. No person shall testify without first receiving       recognition from the Approving
   Authority and stating full name and address.

CG. No person shall present irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious testimony or
    evidence. Formal rules of evidence as used in courts of law shail not apply.
    Evidence received at any hearing shall be of the quality that reasonable persons
    rely upon in the conduct of their everyday affairs.

D. Audience demonstrations such as applause, cheering, and display of signs, or
   other conduct disruptive of the hearing shall not be permitted.

—. The person in charge of the decision making body shall have the authority, at
   such person's discretion, to inform, reprimand, or remove any person or persons
   for violations of the above rules of conduct. Violations of the above rules of
   conduct shall further be grounds for the immediate suspension of the hearing.

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                              20100010
XX, XXKK 2010
SECTION 2.220    Approval, Rejection, Modification

A. Any application may be approved, rejected and modified, or approved subject to
   conditions.

B. Any change to an application approved pursuant to the Wasco County NSA
   LUDO which represents a major deviation from the approved development action
   shall be processed as a new action.

C. Any change to an application approved pursuant to the Wasco County LUDO
   which represents an immaterial deviation from the approved development action
   shall be reviewed by the Wasco County Planning Department for consistency
   with the applicable criteria in this ordinance and the findings and conclusions of
   the original approval. If the Planning Director approves a minor change, a new
   notice of decision indicating the change shall be given to all of the parties that
   would have standing to appeal the change, including the applicant, the Forest
   Service, the four Indian Tribal governments, the Columbia River Gorge
   Commission, and anyone who submitted comments during the comment period
   on the original land use application. The change itself is subject to appeal under
   the same time frames applicable to the original decision.

D. Any change to an application approved pursuant to the Wasco County NSA
   LUDO that is located entirely within the approved development footprint and
   reduces any exterior dimension without increasing any other dimension and
   without altering any approved exterior structural colors and materials may be
   approved by the Director upon submittal of a formal request, a new site plan, and
   any other information required for review of the requested change. This change
   will not require an additional pre-notice, findings, notice of decision or appeal
   period.

SECTION 2.230    Appeals to the Gorge Commission

A. Congress authorized people to appeal a final decision by the County that relates
   to the implementation of the Scenic Area Act to the Gorge Commission:

   “Any person or entity adversely affected by a final action or order of a county that
   relates to the implementation of this Act may appeal such action or order to the
   Commission by filing with the Commission within thirty days of such action or
   order, a written petition requesting that such action or order be modified,
   terminated or set aside."

B. The Gorge Commission shall consider an appeal at a hearing held for that
   purpose, only after notice to the petitioner, the County and others eligible to
   become parties to the proceeding. The Gorge Commission's hearing shall be

                             2cicecid
                                                     Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                 XX, XXXX 2010
Page 2-24

     based upon the record before the County.

C. The Gorge Commission shall adopt rules to implement the appeals provisions in
     the Scenic Area Act after consultation with the Secretary, the counties, and the
     Indian tribes and only after public hearing.

SECTION 2.240          Expiration of Approvals

A. Notice Not Required: Expiration of any land use approval issued pursuant to this
   ordinance shall be automatic. Failure to give notice of expiration shall not affect
     the expiration of a land use approval.

B. Land Use Approvals without Structures:           Any land use approval issued pursuant
     to this Ordinance for a use or development that does not include a structure shall
     expire two years after the date the land use approval was granted, unless the
     use or development was established according to ali specifications and
     conditions of approval in the land use approval. For land divisions, "established"
     means the final deed or plat has been recorded with the county recorder or
     auditor. The expiration date for the validity of a land use approval is from the
     date of the expiration of the appeal period and not the date the decision was
     issued.

C.   Land Use Approvals with Structures: Any land use approval issued pursuant to
     this Ordinance for a use or development that includes a structure shall expire as
     follows:

     41. When construction has not commenced within two years of the date the land
            use approval was granted, or

     2. When the structure has not been completed within two years of the date of
            commencement of construction.

            The expiration date for the validity of a land use approval is from the date of
            the expiration of the appeal period and not the date the decision was issued.

D. Commencement            of Construction:   As   used   in C(1) above,   commencement   of
     construction shall mean actual construction of the foundation or frame of the
     approved structure.    For utilities and developments without a frame or
     foundation, commencement of construction shall mean actual construction of
     support structures for an approved above ground utility or development or actual
     excavation of trenches for an approved underground utility or development. For
     roads, commencement of construction shall mean actual grading of the roadway.

                                                                2-19¢07"
                                                                  ~   ¢    . fa) “A

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
XX, XXXX 2040
                                                                                               Page 2-25

E. Completion of Structure:        As    used     in C(2) above,     completion    of the structure
   shall mean:                                    :

   1.   Completion of the exterior surface(s) of the structure and

   2.   Compliance with all conditions of approval in the land use approval.

F. Vested Rights

   Pursuant to Part li Chapter 7 Guideline 7 of Standards for Applications, Expiration
   of Approvals, Vested Rights of the Management Plan for the Columbia River
   Gorge National Scenic Area, the laws of the state of Oregon concerning vested
   rights are superseded by the provisions of the Management Plan as authorized
   in the National Scenic Area Act. A person has a vested right for as long as the
   land use approval does not expire.

SECTION 2.250      Extension of Validity of Land Use Approvals

A request for extension of the time frames in 2.240(B), C(1) or C(2) above, shall be
submitted in writing before the applicable expiration date. The expiration date for
the validity of a land use approval is from the date of the expiration of the appeal
period and not the date the decision was issued.

A. The Director may grant one 12-month extension to the validity of a land use
   approval if they determine that events beyond the control of the applicant
   prevented commencement of the use or development (applicable to 2.240(B)
   above) or commencement of construction (applicable to 2.240(C)(1) above)
   within the original two-year time frame.

   The Director may also grant one 12-month extension if they determine that
   events beyond the control of the applicant prevented completion of the structure
   (applicable to 2.240C(2) above) within the original two-year time frame.

   A request for extension shall state the reason why events beyond the control of
   the applicant warrant an extension.

   Approval or denial of       a        request    for   extension    shall   be    considered       an
   administrative decision.

                              96100010
                                                              Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                          XX, 0000 2010
Page 2-26

SECTION 2.300           Planning Commission         Rules

A.    Membership

     The Commission shall consist of seven (7) County residents appointed by the
     County Governing Body to serve as members for a term of four (4) years or for the
     unexpired portion of the term of a member whom the appointee succeeds,
     provided that members of the Commission shall serve without compensation other
     than reimbursement for duly authorized expenses, and members of the
     Commission shall be residents of the various geographic areas of the County. No
     more than two (2) voting members shall be engaged principally in the buying,
     selling or developing of real estate for profit, as individuals, or be members of any
     partnership or officers or employees of any corporation that is engaged principally
     in the buying, selling or developing of real estate for profit. No more than two (2)
     voting members         shall   be   engaged    in   the   same   kind   of   business,   trade   or
     profession.

B.   Disqualification

     Each appointed member shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified
     except that no member of the Commission shail participate in any consideration of
     matter     in which   he is directly or indirectly interested      in a personal     or financial
     sense.                                              ;

C. Officers

     The Commission shall:

     1.     At the first meeting of each       calendar year elect from among         their appointed
            members, to serve for no longer than twelve (12) months, a Chair for their
            body. The Chair shall preside at all meetings, shall appoint and serve ex officio
            upon ail committees, shall compel the attendance of members and witnesses,
            shall administer oaths, and sign the minutes of meetings after the same be
            approved by the body.                                            ‘

     2.     At said   meeting,   select from    among    their appointed     members,    to serve     no
            longer than twelve (12) months, as Vice-Chair for their body. The Vice-Chair
            shall perform the duties of Chair whenever that officer is absent, ill, disqualified
            or otherwise unable to act.

D. Legal Advisor

     The District Attorney or their deputy shall act as legal advisor to the Commission
     and represent them in all litigation, provided that when he determines a conflict of
     interest prevents such service, the County Governing Body may authorize the
     Commission to retain other counsel.

Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                        20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                      Page 2-27

E.   Meetings

     The Commission shall meet upon call of the Chair pursuant to such rules as they
     may from time to time adopt. Meetings of the Commission shall normally be held
     on the-same day of the month established by the Commission, unless such day is
     a legal County holiday, in which case the commission shall decide upon the day to
     meet at its previous meeting. All meetings shall be public. All meetings of the
     Commission shall be publicized by giving notice thereof in a newspaper of general
     circulation pursuant to 2.100(B), Notice Requirements.

                              26100010
                                                     Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
                                                                                 XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                                                     OLOZ XXXX   ‘XX
                                                                                          S@INpssold jeAciddy jusudojeaeq-z eydey
                                                                                                        am wnsLBy ajeog-abie7
                                                                                        Ul SJUBAX [BlOBWLUOD pue G4S LWeJ-UOU
                                                                                     }d80Xxe S}IS JO Bae ayI|PIM SANISUaS JO ,OO0L
                                                                                           UIU}IM SESN MaIABY — GN] eunynouby
                                                                                                                      jueld aes Jo
                                                                                      ‘OHS JO BOIL ALi PIM BANISUAS JO OOO] UILAIA
                                                                                            sesn pue QM eunynouby ajeog-ebe7
                                                                                        Ul SJUAAZ [BIJeWWOD pue G4S Wue}-uoU
                                                                                          d90xa sesn Malney — GN] einynouby
                                                                                                         queld ase! JO OOOL UIUTIM
                                                                                     SM }Sa10} 9 sunyNoUBy 0} JUssefpe syueAg

                                                                                                                                       20100010
                                                                                      [eloueWWO0d pue Sq4s — GN lenuep|sey
                                                                                                     SN Isao Jo aunynouby
                                                                                         0} uacelpe pajeoo] s]UsAF [elJOWIWOD
                                                                                           pue sig }daoxe jueld ase & Jo COOL
                                                                                          UU Sesn MaIAdy — GN leNUepIseY
                                                                                                                    SRS 10 Cale
                                                                                         AJIPIIM SANISUBS E JO COOL UUW sjUeAg
                                                                                      [PINSWLWOD pue Sqr)7 }SeOY +9 eunynouBy
                                                                                            0} jugoelpe Sq4s — ANT renuepisey
                                                                                         S}UBAQ JBIOJBWLUOD pue SQN7 }sas04 JO
                                                                                     ainynouBy 0} yuase[pe payeoo) sqjs jdeoxe
                                                                                          SUS JO BAC SYP  BAISUSS B JO COOL
                                                                                          UII Sesn MalAey — GN leHUepIsey
                                                                                            qed aJ8) BJO “AIS JO BIE Sy/PIM
                                                                                 SAHISUAS JO OO} UIUM esou} Jdeoxe sjuaAg
                                                                                  [elJaWLUOD pue Sqr] }se104 gy eunynouBy
                                                                                            0} Jusce[pe SQ4S — GM TeHUapIsey
                                                                                                       queyd eel & JO “ays Jo ease
                                                                                     ey JIM SARISUAS B JO COO} UIUJIM sasn esouy
                                                                                       pue ‘sjuaag [elJewog puke sqf7 yse04
                                                                                           2 aunynouBy 0} Jusse[pe payeoo] Sq4s
                                        x                                                 jdaoxs sasn mealney — GN") jeUepisey
                                                                                              Vauv LINSW3S9VNYW TWYHSNa9
                    00S UJ          6002 UM
eBewoH   SHIPIMA   sJaumopue)]     suaumopue’]   Ayunog   3783S s4sn    soqul
                                 SLNSWAYINOAY    NOLLVOldd¥ JO SOLLON   4-2 a1qe1.
                                                                                                                          92-2 ebeg
ObO% XXXX ‘xx
saunpecdold peaoiddy juauidojeaag-z 1adeya
                                                                     “yoed 99 ‘ssadoid jonpoid
                                                                                             ‘Be ‘sayauim
                                                                     ‘S]UBAZ |BIO@WWOD ‘saljsnpul abeyoo
                                                                      ‘suonednoso awoy ‘speoyiies ‘s
                                                                   Ain ydeoxe sesn malAey — Gn ysa04

                                                        [<[><
                                                  [<<
                                             KK

                                                                   SaSNn MANDY — NT 1e[9edg-ainjjnouby

                                                                                                                  20100010
                                                                                    que|d aie) @ JO O00L
                                                                    UUM S8Sn MaIAY — GN] eveds uadg
                                             1K

                                                  |<

                                                        |X
                                                                     BUS 10 BALE SYl|P|IM SAINSUAS & JO COOL
                                                                    UUM SBsn MaIAdyY — GN7] e9eds UsdO
                                             x

                                                  x

                                                        x
                                                                                        jued asere 10 ‘ays JO
                                                                BJE API     SARISUAS B JO COOL UIUM @SOU}
                                                                   jdeoxe sesn malAay ~ Gn]  eoedg usd

                                                  =<

                                                        <
                                                                                            queld ales @ jo
                                                                000} UUM sesn MalAaY — GN] UoHeeDeY
                                                                            iS 10 Cale Sp IPM aAgisuas = JO
                                                                000} ILI Sesn MalAey — GN7 UOReaIDeY
                                                                                        queld aye) € 30 “ays JO
                                                                222 AJIIPIIM @ANISUAS 2 JO OOO) UILYIM esoUy
                                                                    qdaoxe sesn MaIAeY — GN] UORaIDe8y
                                                                                         jued ale] 2 30 COOL
                                                                    UU     S8SN MBIASY — GN] felssswWweD
                                                                     SUS JO Base AylIpM SATISUGS E JO OOO)
                                                                    UIUUM SaSn MBIAdY — GN] [efoueuw0Eg
                                                                        yueyd 812 JO OOOL UILRIM einynNoW
                                                                                                        by
                                                                          aleoS-e6se7 ul s}usAz yea
                                                                       JO G4S We}-UON — GN sunynouBy
                                                                                                   SiS 10 Bale
                                                                 AYIIPIM @ARISUAS 40 COO} UlLyIA eunynouBy
                                                                          ajeog-ebse7 ul sjueAz jeleww05
                                                                       Jo G4S We}-UON — GN eunynoBy
                                                                jUe|d 812 10 “alls 10 Bale SII/P[IM SANISUAS JO
                                                                 OOO} UUM asouy Jdeoxe ‘qn7 eunynouby
                                                                         ajeog-eBle7 ul SJUaAZ jerssJeWUWOd
                                                                       JO G4S WJ2}-UON — GN] eunynouBy
                                                                                            am aunyinouby
                                                                     ayeog-ebie7 ul sjuenz [eloawwo4y pue
                                                                  GAS Wej-uoU \deoxa jueid asey B JO COOL
            x                                                        ULM Sesn MelAeY — ON         ounynouGy
62-2 eBed
        Page 2-30

        mineral resources, geothermal resources,
        aquaculture, boarding of horses, temp.
        asphalt/batch plants, expansion of non-profit
        learning/research facilities, and those review
        uses within 1000’ feet of a sensitive wildlife
        area or site, or rare plant
        Forest LUD — Utility facilities, railroads,
        home occupations, wineries, ag. produce
        process. & pack., mineral resources,
        geothermal resources, aquaculture,
        boarding of horses, temp. asphalt/batch
        plants, expansion of non-profit camps-
        retreats-conf. centers, B&Bs, non-profit
        learning/research facilities, and not within
        1000’ feet of a sensitive wildlife area or site,
        or rare plant
        Forest LUD — Review uses within 1000’ feet
        of a sensitive wildlife area or site, except
        utility facilities, railroads, home occupations,
        wineries, ag. produce process. & pack.,
        mineral resources, geothermal resources,
        aquaculture, boarding of horses, temp.
        asphalt/batch plants, expansion of non-profit
        camps-retreats~conf. centers, B&Bs,
        Commercial Events, non-profit
        learning/research facilities
        Forest LUD — Review uses within 1000’ of a
500b-

        rare plant except utility facilities, railroads,
        home occupations, wineries, ag. produce
        process. & pack., mineral resources,
  wr

        geothermal resources, aquaculture,
        boarding of horses, temp. asphalt/batch
        plants, expansion of non-profit camps-
        retreats-conf. centers, B&Bs, non-profit
        leaming/research facilities
        Forest LUD — Utility facilities, railroads,
        home occupations, wineries, ag. produce
        process. & pack., mineral resources,
         geothermal resources, aquaculture,

        Chapter 2-Development Approval Procedures
        XX, XXXK 2010                         :
OLOZ XXXX ‘XX
Saunparoig jeaoiddy juowdojoneg-z 1o}deyy,

                                                                                              20100010
                                                                 SQN liv — SeSn MelAey
                                                      SV3UNV INAWSDYNYA         IVIO3dS
                                                                             ‘yueld aJe1 10
                                             ‘AVS JO Basle AANISUAS E JO JOO! UIUJIM @SOU}
                                                 jdaoxe sasn MeiNeY — GN [elosewUOD
                                                                     qjueld ase: @ JO OOOL
                                              UUM saline) yoseases/Hujusee| youd-uou
                                                Jo uoisuedxa ‘sjueid yoyeqnjeudse “diay
                                                 ‘SJUBAZ JEINBWWUOD ‘sesioy jo Bulpseog
                                                      ‘ginyinoenbe ‘saosnoses jeuue8yjoeb
                                                     ‘seounoseJ |eueulu “yoed y ‘sseoosd
                                                sonpoud ‘Be ‘seeuim ‘suopednzo0 aioy
                                                  ‘speouie ‘saquoe) Ayn — GN 3se104
                                                                                      ays
                                                JO BSJE SIPIIM SAHISUSS B JO COO} UILIM
                                                   2) Yseese/Hujusee| yyosd-uou ‘s}uaAq
                                               JelUeWIUOZD ‘sgrgg “sJa}UAD ‘JUOD-S}eaJ}aU
                                                   -sdwe jyoud-uou jo uoisuedxe ‘sjue|d
                                                 yoyeqneudse ‘dua ‘sessoy jo Buipseoq
bez ebeg
                DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

                CHAPTER 3 BASIC PROVISIONS

SECTION                                                       PAGE
3.010     INTRODUCTION                                        3-1
3.020     COMPLIANCE REQUIRED                                 3-1
3.030     LOCATION OF ZONES                                   3-1
3.040     ZONING MAPS                                         3-1
3.050     BOUNDARIES OF ZONES
3.060     CLASSIFICATION OF ZONES                              3-2
3.100     USES PERMITTED WITHOUT REVIEW                        3-5
3.110     EXPEDITED REVIEW                                     3-11
3.120     "A-1" LARGE SCALE AGRICULTURE                        3-17
3.130     “A-2" SMALL SCALE AGRICULTURE                        3-35
3.140     “F-1" INDUSTRIAL FOREST                              3-43
3.150     “F-3" SMALL WOODLAND-FOREST                          3-53
3.160     “R-R" RURAL RESIDENTIAL                              3-63
3.170     "PR" PUBLIC RECREATION                               3-71
3.180     "OS" OPEN SPACE                                      3-79
3.190     "A-S" AGRICULTURE - SPECIAL                          3-89
3.200     ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION DISTRICT                   3-95
3.210     DIVISIONS                                            3-95
3.230     NON-LIABILITY CLAUSE                                 3-96
3.240     DIVISION 1 - FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY                    3-97
3.250     DIVISION 2 - GEOLOGIC HAZARDS OVERLAY               3-99

                            20100610              Chapter 3-Basic Provisions
                                                            January 10, 2006
                                  CHAPTER 3 BASIC PROVISIONS

SECTION 3.010      Introduction

In order to achieve the purposes outlined in Chapter 1 of this Ordinance and to assure that
the development        and   use of land   in the National    Scenic Area   portion of Wasco       County
conforms to the Comprehensive Plan and Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge
National Scenic Area, zoning classifications have been established for all unincorporated
lands in the National Scenic Area portion of Wasco County. These classifications specify
regulations for the use of land and property development standards, and are applied by
boundaries indicated on the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Zoning maps for
Wasco County.

SECTION 3.020      Compliance Required

A legal parcel may be used and a legal structure or part of a legal structure may                        be
constructed, moved, occupied, or used only as this Ordinance permits.

New cultivation and some re-cultivation are subject to Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.
The Gorge Commission, Forest Service and County will work together to establish a farm
stewardship program enabling the County's Technical Advisory Committee, the Soil
Conservation Service, Cherry Grower's Association and other affected groups to help
educate Wasco County National Scenic Area residents about compliance requirements
and preferable farming practices.

SECTION 3.030      Location of Zones

The boundaries of each of the foregoing zones, the zoning classifications and use of each
tract in each of said zoning districts are hereby prescribed to coincide with the identifying
zone classification.

SECTION 3.040      Zoning Maps

A Zoning Map or Zoning Amendment shall:

A. Be prepared by authority of the Planning Commission                 or be a modification        by the
   County Court of a map amendment so prepared;

B. Be adopted by order of the County Court thereon;

                                                      2 041    0 0 0 1 0          Chapter 3-Basic Provisions
                                                                                            January 10, 2006
Page 3-2

C.   Be dated with the effective date of such action; and

D. Be reviewed by the Columbia              River    Gorge       Commission    and     Forest     Service      and
   approved if appropriate; and

E. Be filed and maintained without change in the Office of the County Clerk as long as this
   Ordinance remains in effect.

SECTION       3.050     Boundaries of Zones

Boundaries of plan designations are established by the Gorge Commission and Forest
Service in accordance with the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Management
Plan and Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act (Public Law 99-663).
boundary       lines   have   been   transposed     onto   Wasco     County    tax   lot   maps    for   use     in
implementing this ordinance.

Original Scenic Area Maps and Land Use Designation maps are on file at the offices of the
USDA Forest Service, National Scenic Area Office, Hood River Oregon and the Gorge
Commission Office, White Salmon, Washington.

A. When       it is necessary to pinpoint the location of a boundary line on the ground                         an
     applicant shall consult with the Gorge          Commission      and   Forest Service regarding the
     specific location of the boundary.

B. Where a discrepancy exists, the applicant shall work with the Gorge Commission and
   Forest Service staff to resolve the discrepancy.

SECTION       3.060     Classification of Zones

For the purposes of this Ordinance, the following zones are hereby established:

ZONE
Large Scale Agriculture                                    At
Small Scale Agriculture                                    A-2
Industrial Forest                                          F-1
Small Woodland-Forest                                      F-3
Rural Residential                                          RR
Commercial                                                 Cc
Public Recreation                                          PR
Commercial Recreation                                      CR
Open Space                                                 os
Agriculture Special                                        A-S

Chapter 3-Basic Provisions
January 10, 2006                                                              20100010
OVERLAY ZONES

Environmental Protection District - EPD

Division 1‘   Flood hazard overlay
Division 2    Geologic hazard overlay

                                          20100010   Chapter 3-Basic Provisions
                                                               January 10, 2006
20100010
                                                                                                    Page 3-5"

SECTION 3.100       Uses Permitted Without Review

The following uses may be allowed without review in all GMA and SMA land use
designations, except GMA and SMA Open Space and Agriculture Special, subject to
the applicable property development standards:

A. In the General Management Area, agricultural uses except new cultivation. Any
   operation that would cultivate land that has not been cultivated, or has lain idle, for
   more than 5 years shall be considered new cultivation. For this guideline, cultivation
   and vegetation removal may be allowed in conjunction with a home garden.

   In the Special Management Area, agricultural uses within previously disturbed and
   regularly worked fields or areas.

 . Forest practices in the General Management Area that do not violate conditions of
   approval for other approved uses and developments.

   Repair, maintenance and operation of existing structures, including, but not limited
   to, dwellings, agricultural structures, trails, roads, railroads, and utility facilities.

   Accessory structures 60 square feet or less in area and 10 feet or less in height,
   unless within the buffer zone of a wetland, stream, pond, lake or riparian area. This
   category does not include signs, fences, outdoor lights, retaining walls, flagpoles,
   transportation facilities, or utility facilities.

   Wire-strand or woven-wire fences used for gardens, yards, livestock, and similar
   uses less than or equal to 500 feet in length and less than or equal to 10 feet in
   height that are accessory to an existing dwelling, provided woven-wire fences (post
   and wire) are brown or black if visible from key viewing areas. Height is measured
   from the ground to the top wire.

   Wire-strand fences       less than or equal to 48 inches in height that are outside deer
   and elk winter range as delineated in the Gorge Commission/USDA Forest Service
   natural resource inventories or determined by an appropriate federal or state
   agency. Height is measured from the ground.to the top wire. This category does not
   include fences associated with transportation facilities or utility facilities.

 . The following transportation facilities:

   1. Replace      existing safety or protective       structures,    including     guardrails,    access
       control fences and gates, barriers, energy attenuators, safety cables, and traffic
       signals and controllers, provided the replacement structures are:

       a. The same location and size as the existing structures and

                                              29100010               Chapter 3-Uses Permitted Without Review
                                                                                              XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-6

           b, ‘The same building materials as the existing structures, or building materials
                 that are dark brown with a flat, non-reflective finish, or building materials
                 consistent with the Historic Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the
                 Historic Columbia River Highway or a scenic highway corridor strategy for
                 Interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies in the section of the
                 Scenic Resources chapter of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel
                 Corridors.”

    2.     Replace     existing traffic detection devices, vehicle weighing       devices, and_signal
           boxes, provided the replacement structures are

           a.    The same location and size as the existing structures and

           b. The same building materials as the existing structures, or building materials
              that are dark brown with a flat, non-reflective finish, or building materials
              consistent with the Historic Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the
              Historic Columbia River Highway or a scenic highway corridor strategy for
                 interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies in the section of the
                 Scenic Resources chapter of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel
                 Corridors.”

           New     raised pavement        markers, guide posts, object markers,   inlay markers, and
           pavement markings and striping.

           Permanent public regulatory, guide, and warning signs, except those excluded
           below, provided:

           a     The signs comply with the Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices; and

           b. The support structures and backs of ali signs are dark brown with a flat, non-
              reflective finish. This category does not include specific service signs;
              destination and distance signs; variable message signs; or signs that bridge
              or are cantilevered over the road surface.

    5.     Extensions of existing guardrails less than or equal to 50 feet in length and new
           guardrail ends for existing guardrails, provided the guardrails and guardrail ends
           are

           a.    Located inside rights-of-way that have been disturbed in the past; and

           b. Constructed of materials that match the existing structure, natural wood,
              weathering steel (e.g., Corten), or materials consistent with the Historic
              Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the Historic Columbia River

Chapter 3-Uses Permitted Without Review                             9 0 1 } 0 0 1 0
JOG, XXX 2010
                                                                                         Page 3-7

          Highway or a scenic highway corridor strategy for Interstate 84 prepared
          according to the GMA policies in the section of the Scenic Resources chapter
          of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel Corridors.”

6.   New guardrails and guardrail ends, provided the structures are

     a.   Located inside rights-of-way that have been disturbed in the past and

     b. Constructed of natural wood, weathering steel (e.g., Corten), or materials
        consistent with the Historic Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the
        Historic Columbia River Highway or a scenic highway corridor strategy for
        Interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies in the section of the
        Scenic Resources chapter of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel
        Corridors.” This category does not include jersey barriers.

7.   In the General Management Area, replace and/or expand existing culverts,
     provided the entity or person owning or operating the cuivert shall obtain all
     necessary federal and state permits that protect water quality and fish and
     wildlife habitat before construction.

8.   In the Special Management Area, replace and/or expand existing culverts for
     ephemeral streams or ditches, provided the visible ends of culverts shall be dark
     and non-reflective.

9.   Resurface or overlay existing paved roads, provided the activity does not

     a.   Increase the width of a road

     b. Disturb the toe of adjacent embankments, slopes or cut banks, or

     c.   Change existing structures or add new structures.

10.Apply dust abatement products to non-paved road surfaces.

11.Grade and gravel existing road shoulders, provided the activity does not

     a.   Increase the width of a road,

     b. Disturb the toe of adjacent embankments, slopes or cut banks, or

     c.   Change existing structures or add new structures.

12.Replace the superstructure of bridges (e.g., decks, beams) for bridges less than
   or equal to 30 feet in length and less than or equal to 1,000 square feet in area.

                                     2 G 4 0 0 Cc 1 0     Chapter 3-Uses Permitted Without Review
                                                                                   XX, XXKX 2010
Page 3-8

           This category does not include guardrails or the substructure of bridges (e.g.,
           foundations, abutments).

I.   The following underground utility facilities:

     4.    Replace or modify existing underground utility facilities located inside road, utility
           or railroad rights-of-way or easements that have been disturbed in the past or co-
           locate new underground utility facilities with existing underground facilities
           located inside road, utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements that have been
           disturbed in the past, provided no excavation would extend beyond the depth
           and extent of the original excavation.

     2.    Replace or modify existing underground utility facilities located inside road, utility
           or railroad rights-of-way or easements that have been disturbed in the past or co-
           locate new underground utility facilities with existing underground facilities
           located inside road, utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements that have been
           disturbed in the past, provided:

           a.   No excavation     would    extend    more than        12 inches   beyond     the depth and
                extent of the original excavation,

           b. No ditch for linear facilities would be more than 24 inches wide,

           c.   No excavation for non-linear facilities would exceed 10 cubic yards, and

           d. No recorded archaeological site is located within 500 feet of the development.
              To comply, the entity or person undertaking the development shall contact
              the Oregon State Historic Preservation Office and obtain a letter or other
              document stating no recorded archaeological site is located within 500 feet of
                the development.

J.   The following aboveground and overhead utility facilities:

     1.    Replace    existing   aboveground        and   overhead _ utility facilities including    towers,
           pole/tower-mounted         equipment,      cables    and     wires,    anchors,    pad-mounted
           equipment, service boxes, pumps, valves, pipes, water meters, and fire hydrants,
           provided the replacement facilities would have

           a. The same location and size as the existing facilities and

           b. The same      building materials as the existing facilities, or building materials
                that are dark    brown    with   a flat, non-reflective     finish,   or building   materials
                consistent with the Historic Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the
                Historic Columbia River Highway or a scenic highway corridor strategy for

Chapter 3-Uses Permitted Without Review
                                                                        27100010
XK, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                          Page 3-9

               Interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies in the section of the
               Scenic Resources chapter of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel
               Corridors.”

     2.   Replace existing utility poles, provided the replacement poles are

          a.   Located within 5 feet of the original poles,

          b.   No more than 5 feet taller and 6 inches wider than the original poles, and

          c.   Constructed of natural wood, weathering steel (e.g., Corten), matenals that
               match the original poles, or materials that are dark brown with a flat, non-
               reflective finish.

     3.   New whip antennas for public service less than or equal to 8-feet in height and
          less than or equal to 2 inches in diameter, cables, wires, transformers, and other
          similar equipment,     provided       all such structures are on existing utility poles or
          towers.

K. Flagpoles that are accessory to the principal building on a parcel, provided the
     height of the flagpole is less than or equal to the height of the highest ridge line or
     parapet of the principal building.          .

L.   The following Signs:

     4.   Election signs.   Removal must be accomplished within 30 days of election day.

     2.   "For sale" signs not greater than 12 square                        feet.      Removal       must      be
          accomplished within 30 days of close of sale.

     3.   Temporary     construction     site   identification,   public    service     company,      safety,    or
          information signs not greater than 32 square feet.                 Exceptions may be granted
          for public   highway   signs    necessary      for public    safety     and    consistent     with    the
          Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices.                 Removal        must be accomplished
          within 30 days of project completion.

     4.   Signs posted _on private property warning the public against trespassing, danger
          from animals, the private nature of a road, driveway or premise, or signs
          prohibiting or otherwise controlling fishing or hunting, provided such signs are not
          greater than 6 square feet in the General Management Area and 2 square feet in
          the Special Management Area.

                                         ecioce1o                          Chapter 3-Uses Permitted Without Review
                                                                                                    XX, XXXX 2010
 Page 3-10

     5. Temporary signs advertising civil, social, or political gatherings and activities
        provided such signs do not exceed 12 square feet.             Removal must be
        accomplished within 30 days of the close of the event.

     6. Signs posted by governmental jurisdictions giving notice to the public. Such
        signs shall be no larger than that required to convey the intended message.

     7.      In the General Management Area, signs associated with the use of a building or
             buildings, if placed flat on the outside walls of buildings (not on roofs or
             marquees).

 M. In the General Management             Area, wind machines for frost control in conjunction
    with agricultural use.

Chapter 3-Uses Permitted Without Review                         20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                    Page 3-11

SECTION 3.110          Expedited Review

A.   Uses Permitted. Subject to Expedited Review
     The following developments may be allowed on a legal parcel subject to the
     expedited development review process listed in Chapter 2, provided they comply
     with the resource protection and procedural guidelines listed below.

     1.   Except in Open Space and Agriculture-Special, accessory structures between 60
          and 200 square feet in area and 10 feet or less in height. Only one accessory
          building per parcel may be allowed under this guideline, regardless of whether
          the parcel already includes an accessory building(s). Additional accessory
          buildings shall be subject to full review. This category does not inciude signs,
          decks, fences, outdoor lights, retaining walls, transportation facilities, or utility
          facilities.

          Additions and covered decks for existing buildings, provided the existing building
          is at least 500 square feet in area and the addition or covered deck is no larger
          than 200 square feet in area and no tailer than the height of the existing building.
          Only one addition and one covered deck per parcel may be allowed under this
          guideline, regardless of whether the parcel already includes an addition or
          covered deck.                                                      ;

          Rail, solid or semi-solid fences accessory to existing dwellings less than or equal
          to 6 feet in height and less than or equal to 100 feet in length.

          Wire-strand_fences other than those allowed outright, provided the fence
          complies with the "Approval Criteria for Fences in Deer and Elk Winter Range" in
          14.600(C) if it is inside deer and elk winter range as delineated in the Gorge
          Commission/USDA Forest Service natural resource inventories or determined by
          an appropriate federal or state agency.

          Woven-wire    fences   for agricultural   use    that would    enclose      80   acres   or less.
          (GMA Only)

          Decks that are:

          a.   Uncovered,

          b. Attached and accessory to existing dwellings, and

          c.   500 square feet or less in area and 30 inches or less in height above existing
               grade.

          Road closure gates

                                                          9 Nn 1   n 0 0 1 0       Chapter 3-Expedited Review
                                                                                               XX, HOCK 2010
Page 3-12

    8.      Signs, other than those allowed outright subject to the provisions of Chapter 23.

    9.      Outdoor lights.

    10. Air, weather, water and_-other similar research and monitoring facilities, provided
          the facilities are attached to existing structures or are less than or equal to 120
          square feet in size and less than or equal to 12 feet in height.

    11.Property line adjustments and Replats subject to Section 21.200 in the General
       Management Area that would not result in the potential to create additional
       parcels through subsequent land divisions, subject to the applicable property
       development standards for the zone in which the property is located and all other
       applicable provisions of Chapter 21, except all lot line adjustments for parcels
       designated Open Space, Agricultural Special or, Public Recreation, shall be
       reviewed through the full development review process.

    12.Property line adjustments in the Special Management Area subject to Section
            21.200 and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

     43. Removal/Demolition of structures that are less than 50 years old, including wells,
            septic tanks and fuel tanks.

    14. Decommission non-paved roads, including ripping the road surface, barriers, and
        revegetation.

    15. Trail reconstruction involving up to 1,000 feet of trail re-route.

    16. The following transportation facilities, provided they are not a part of larger
        construction or reconstruction projects (which shall be reviewed as a whole):

            a.   New guardrails and guardrail ends, other than those allowed outright and new
                 wire-strand and woven-wire access control fences. This category does not
                 include jersey barriers.

            b. New traffic detection devices, vehicle weighing devices, and signal boxes less
               than or equal to 120 square feet in size and less than or equal to 12 feet in
               height. This category does not include signs.

            c. Pave existing dirt and gravel roads, provided the activity does not increase
               the width of the road or disturb the toe of adjacent embankments, slopes or
               cut banks.

Chapter 3-Expedited Review
XX, XXXX 2010                                                      20100010
                                                                                                         Page 3-13

    d.    New weather, air, traffic or other monitoring equipment attached to existing
          structures or that are less than or equal to 120 square feet in size and less
          than or equal to 12 feet in height.

17.New underground utility facilities, except_in Agriculture Special, located inside
   road, utility or railroad rights-ofway or easements that have been disturbed in
   the past, provided no ditch for linear facilities would be more than 36 inches wide
   and no excavation for non-linear facilities would exceed 20 cubic yards.

18. The    following above ground and overhead utility facilities:

    a.    Modify existing aboveground and overhead _utility facilities or, except in
          Agriculture Special, develop new aboveground and overhead utility facilities
          including    building and   equipment foundations,                poles, transformers,        conduit,
          fencing, pumps, valves, pipes, and water meters, provided the development
          would be less than or equal to 120 square feet in area and less than or equal
          to 12 feet in height.

    b. Replace existing aboveground and overhead utility facilities including building
          and   equipment     foundations,   poles,   transformers,             conduit,     fencing,    pumps,
          valves, pipes, and water meters, provided the replacement facilities would be
          in the same location as and no more than 15 percent larger than the physical
          size of the existing facilities.

    c.    New antennas and associated support structures necessary for public service
          on existing wireless communication poles and towers other than those
          allowed outright, provided the size is the minimum necessary to provide the
          service.

19. Replace     an existing mobile home in a mobile home space within a mobile home
    park, provided

    a. The mobile home to be replaced, the mobile home space and the mobile
       home park shall be existing, lawful uses according to the definition of existing
       use or structure in 1.200 and the provisions of 13.020, 13.080, and 13.090.

    b. The replacement mobile home shall be in the same location as the mobile
       home to be repiaced;

    c. The height of the replacement mobile home shall be no more than 20 percent
          greater than the mobile home to be replaced, and

    d.    The   mass    and footprint of the replacement               mobile       home   shall be no more
          than 100 percent greater than a single-wide mobile home to be replaced or

                                                       2   n   1   0    0   0   1   0   Chapter 3-Expedited Review
                                                                                                    XX, XXX   2010
Page 3-14

                 no more than 25 percent greater than a double-wide              mobile home    to be
                 replaced.

    20. Retaining walls accessory to existing dwellings less than or equal to 2 feet in
        height and less than or equal to 100 feet in length.

    21.Wind machines for frost control in conjunction with agricultural use. (SMA Only)

B. Expedited Development Review Process
   Proposed developments reviewed using the expedited review process shall comply
   with the following resource protection guidelines:

    1.      Scenic

            a.   In the General Management Area, the scenic resource protection guidelines
                 shall not apply to woven-wire fences for agricultural use that would enclose
                 80 acres or less.

            b. Except signs, the colors of structures topographically visible from key viewing
               areas shall be dark earth-tones found at the specific site or the surrounding
               landscape. The specific colors or list of acceptable colors shall be included as
               a condition of approval. This guideline shall not apply to additions, which may
               match the color of existing buildings.

            c.   Except signs, structures topographically visible from key viewing areas shall
                 use low or non-reflective building materials, including roofing, gutters, vents,
                 and chimneys.

            d. Outdoor lights shall be directed downward and sited, hooded, and shielded
               such that they are not highly visible from key viewing areas. Shielding and
               hooding materials shall be composed of non-reflective, opaque materials.

            e.   Structures within %-mile of a key viewing area and topographically visible
                 from the key viewing area shall be sited, screened and/or designed to
                 achieve the applicable scenic standard (e.g., visual subordinance, not visually
                 evident).

    2.      Cultural

            a. The expedited      development   review process         shall only be used   to review
                 proposed    development   that does   not   require    a reconnaissance    survey   or
                 historic survey. The cultural resources in Section 14.500 shall be used to
                 determine if a reconnaissance and/or historic survey is required for a
                 proposed development.

Chapter 3-Expedited Review
XX, XXXX 2010                                                                20100010
                                                                                              Page 3-15

         b. The requirements of 14.500(G), “Cultural Resources Discovered After
            Construction Begins’, shall be applied as conditions of approval for all
            development approved under the expedited development review process.

    3.   Recreation
         The development shall not detract from the use and enjoyment of established
         recreation sites on adjacent parcels.

    4.   Natural

         a. Wetlands, Streams, Rivers, Ponds, and Lakes:
              The development is.outside buffer zones for wetlands, streams, rivers, ponds,
              and Jakes. This guideline shall not apply to lot line adjustments or
              development located inside road, utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements
              that have been previously disturbed and regularly maintained.

         b.   Sensitive Wildlife and Sensitive Plants

              (1)The development meets one of the following:

                   (a) The development is at least 1,000 feet from known sensitive wildlife
                       areas or sites (excluding sensitive aquatic species, deer winter range,
                       and turkey habitat) and known sensitive plants; or

                   (b) The development does not disturb the ground or is inside road, utility
                       or railroad rights-of-way or easements or other areas that have been
                       previously disturbed and regularly maintained; or

                   (c) For sensitive wildlife, the development is within 1,000 feet of known
                       sensitive wildlife areas or sites (excluding sensitive aquatic species,
                       deer winter range and turkey habitat), but an appropriate federal or.
                       state wildlife agency determines the sensitive wildlife area or site is not
                       active or the proposed development would not compromise the
                       integrity of the wildlife area or site or occur during the time of the year
                      when wildlife species are sensitive to disturbance.

                      For sensitive plants, the development      is within   1,000 feet of known              |
                      sensitive plants, but the Oregon Natural Heritage Program or a person               |
                      with recognized expertise in botany or plant ecology hired by the
                      applicant has determined that the development would be at least 200
|                     feet from the sensitive plants.

                                                                                                    iew
                                                                             Chapter 2-Expexited Rev
                                                  2 n 1 0} 0 0 1 0
Page 3-16

                (2) Development eligible for expedited review shall be exempt from the field
                    surveys for sensitive wildlife or sensitive plants in Section 14.600.

C. Treaty Protection Rights
    Proposed developments reviewed using the expedited review process shall comply
    with the following treaty rights protection guidelines:

    4.      Proposed developments shall not affect or modify any treaty or other rights of
            any Indian tribe.

    2. The          expedited development review process shall cease and the proposed
            dev   elopment   shall be reviewed using the full development review process if an
            Indi. an tribe submits substantive written comments during the comment period
            that identify the treaty rights that exist in the project vicinity and explain how they
            would be affected or modified by the proposed development.

    3.      Except as provided in 2 above, the GMA and SMA treaty rights and consultation
            criteria in Sections 14.800 & 14.810 shall not apply to proposed. developments
            reviewed under the expedited review process.

Chapter 3-Expedited Review                                           2 Nn 1 i) 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                             Page 3-17

SECTION 3.120        "A-1"   Large Seale Agriculture Zone (GMA & SMA)

A. Purpose
   The purpose of the Large Scale Agriculture Zone is to protect and enhance large
   scale agricultural land for agricultural uses. Large Scale Agricultural lands are
   generally:

   4. Currently devoted to agriculture of a scale that is land intensive,                   employs
      workers, or provides significant products for markets or processors; or

   2.   Have a combination of soil capability, size and freedom from conflicting use that
        renders them suitable for large-scale agriculture or forest use.

B. Uses Pemnitted Without Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.100 may be allowed without review on
   lands designated Large-Scale Agriculture. (GMA & SMA)

Cc. Uses Pemnitted Subject to Expedited Review
    The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be allowed on a legal parcel
    designated Large-Scale Agriculture subject to the Expedited Review Process.
    Subsection G - Property Development Standards, and Chapter 11 - Fire Safety
    Standards as well as all other listed or referenced standards. (GMA & SMA)

D. Uses Permitted Subject to Review
   The following uses arid activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated
   Large-Scale Agriculture subject to Subsection G - Property Development Standards,
   Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as
   all other listed or referenced standards.

   FARM USE

   4.   New cultivation in the GMA and SMA, or new agricultural use in the SMA outside
        of previously disturbed and regularly worked fields or areas.

        Clearing trees for new agricultural use is subject to criterion J(5): (SMA Only)

   2.   Forest_practices in accordance with an approved forest practices application
        consistent forest practice requirements listed in criterion J(6) below. (SMA Only)

   3. Agricultural structures, except buildings, in conjunction with agricultural use. Non
      commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit this category are subject
      to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19. (GMA & SMA).

   4. Agricultural     buildings   in   conjunction   with   current   agricultural   use   and,      if

                                                      20109010                    on, KK 2010
Page 3-18

            applicable, proposed agricultural use that a landowner would initiate within one
            year and complete within five years, subject to the following standards: (GMA &
            SMA)

            The size of proposed agricultural buildings shall not exceed the size needed to
            serve the current agricultural use and, if applicable, the proposed agricultural
            use. The applicants shall submit a floor plan showing intended uses of the
            agricultural building      (e.g., space for equipment,      supplies,    agricultural products,
            livestock) as well as a Farm Management                Plan defined      in Section          1.200 with
            their land use application:

     RESIDENTIAL USE

     5.     One single family dwelling customarily provided in conjunction with agricultural
            use, as defined, subject to the following standards: (GMA & SMA)

            a. There are no other dwellings on the subject farm or ranch, including all of its
                 constituent   lots/parcels,   contiguous     or    otherwise,      which        are     vacant   or
                 currently occupied by persons not directly engaged in farming or working on
                 the subject farm or        ranch   and    which    could     be   used     as     the     principal
                 agricultural dwelling;

            b. The farm or ranch upon which the dwelling will be located is currently devoted
               to agricultural use, as defined, where the day-to-day activities of one or more
               residents of the agricultural dwelling will be principally directed to the
               agricultural use of the land. Current use includes a minimum area which
               would satisfy (c)(4) below; and

            c.   The operation    is a commercial       agricultural enterprise as determined                by the
                 submittal of a Farm Management             Plan    defined    in Section         1.200     and   an
                 evaluation of the following factors:

                 (1) Size of the entire unit, including all land in the same ownership;

                 (2) Operational requirements for the particular agricultural activity common to
                     area agricultural operations; and

                 (3) The farm or ranch, and all its constituent parcels, is capable of producing
                     at feast $40,000 in gross annual income. This determination can be made
                     using the following formula:

                    Average    Yield    Per Acre/Unit     x Average     Commodity/Unit             Price    x Total
                    Acres for Production of Commodity/Units = Income Capability

Chapter 3-“A-1” Zone
XX, 10006 2010                                                        and      gngtn
                                                                                           Page 3-19

   d. The parcel is a minimum of 40 acres in size. (SMA Only)

6. Accessory structures for an existing or approved dwelling that are not otherwise
   allowed outright, eligible for the expedited development review process, or
   allowed in criterion 7 below. Non commercial wind energy conversion systems
   which fit this category are subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.
   (GMA & SMA)

7. Accessory building(s) larger than 200 square feet in area or taller than 10 feet in
   height for a dwelling on any legal parcel: (GMA & SMA)

      Parcels less than or equal to 10 acres in size are subject to the following
      additional standards:

       (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
           not exceed 1,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
           accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings allowed without
           review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

       (2) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

       Larger than 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional standards:

       (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
           not exceed 2,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
           accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings allowed without
           review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

       (2) The footprint of any individual accessory building shall not exceed               1,500
           square feet.

       (3) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

8. A single family dwelling for an agricultural          operator's     relative subject to the
   following standards: (GMA Only)

       The dwelling would be occupied by a relative of the agricultural operator or of
      the   agricultural   operators   spouse     who    will   be   actively   engaged     in   the
       management of the farm or ranch. Relative means grandparent, grandchild,
       parent, child, brother or sister of the agricultural operator;

       The dwelling would be located on the same lot or parcel as the dwelling of the
       principal operator; and

                                                2 n 1   i 0 0 1 0               Chapter3- “A-1” Zone
                                                                                     XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-20

            c. The operation is a commercial enterprise as determined by an evaluation of
               criterion D(5)(c) above.                                           ;

    9. Agricultural labor housing subject to the following standards (GMA & SMA):

            a.   The    proposed    housing     is necessary and accessory to a current agricultural
                 use as evidenced by the submittal of a Farm Management Plan, defined in
                 Section 1.200, with the application;

            b. The housing shall be seasonal unless it is shown that an additional full-time
               dwelling is necessary to the current agricultural use of the subject farm or
               ranch unit. Seasonal use shall not exceed nine (9) months.

            c. The housing shall be located to minimize the conversion of lands capable of
               production of farm crops or livestock and will not force a significant change in
               or significantly increase the cost of accepted agricultural practices employed
               on nearby lands devoted to agricultural use.

            d. The operation is a commercial enterprise as determined by an evaluation of
               criterion D(5)(c) above

            e. There is an existing dwelling on the parcel.

    40.Life Estate - A landowner who sells or otherwise transfers real property in an
        area designated Large Scale Agriculture may retain a life estate in a dwelling
            and a tract of land surrounding the dwelling. The life estate tract shall not be
            considered a lot/parce! as defined in this Ordinance.    A second dwelling in
            conjunction with agricultural use may be allowed subject to the following
            standards: (GMA Only)

            a. The proposed dwelling is in conjunction with agricultural use, as defined,
               subject to the following standards:

                 (1) There are no other dwellings on the subject farm or ranch, including all of
                     its constituent lots/parcels, contiguous or otherwise, which are vacant or
                     currently occupied by persons not directly engaged in farming or working
                     on the subject farm or ranch and which could be used as the principal
                       agricultural dwelling;

                 (2) The farm or ranch upon which the dweiling will be located is currently
                     devoted to agricultural use, as defined, where the day-to-day activities of
                     one or more residents of the agricultural dwelling will be principally
                     directed to the agricultural use of the land.     Current use includes a
                     minimum area which would satisfy 5(c)(3)   above; and

haplr 2°81" Zone
                                                                             20100010
                                                                                         Page 3-21

      (3) The operation is a commercial agricultural enterprise as determined by an
          evaluation of criterion D(5)(c) above.

   b. Upon termination of the Life Estate, the original or second dwelling shall be
      removed.

11.A_second      single   family   dwelling   customarily   provided   in   conjunction      with
   agricultural use, as defined, when the new dwelling would be used for the
   primary residence instead of the existing dwelling that is listed in the National
   Register of Historic Places, or is eligible for inclusion in the Register as
   determined using the criteria listed in Sections 14.500 and 14.510, Cuitural
   Resources. (GMA Only)

12.A single family dwelling not in conjunction with agricultural use on a lot/parcel
   that was legally created prior to November 17, 1986, subject to the following
    standards: (GMA Only)

      The dwelling will not force a change          in or increase the cost of accepted
      agricultural practices on surrounding lands;

      The subject lot/parcel is predominantly unsuitable for the production of farm
      crops and livestock, considering soils, terrain, location and size of the tract.
      Size alone shall not be used to determine whether a lot/parcel is unsuitable
      for agricultural use. An analysis of suitability shall include the capability of the
      subject lot/parcel to be utilized in conjunction with other agricultural
      operations in the area;

      The dwelling shall be setback from any abutting parcel designated Forest as
      required in 3.140(G), Property Development Standards for the Large Scale
      Forest zone.

      A declaration has been signed by the landowner and recorded into county
      deeds and records specifying that the owners, successors, heirs and assigns
      of the subject property are aware that adjacent and nearby operators are
      entitled to carry on accepted agriculture or forest practices on lands
      designated Agriculture or Forest;

      Request has been made to the County Assessor to disqualify the parcel for
      special assessment under ORS 308A.315, or 321.839 and that said
      disqualification is completed prior to the final approval of the non-farm
      dwelling.

                                              2190010                        Chapter 3- “A-1"” Zone
                                                                                    XX, XXXXK 2010
Page 3-22

      43.The temporary use of a mobile home in the case of a family hardship, subject to
         the standards for hardship dwellings prescribed in Chapter 8, Temporary Use
         Permit. (GMA & SMA). In the SMA, the property must be 40 acres or greater.

      14.One dwelling on a lot/parcel of 40 contiguous acres or larger if an approved
         Forest Management Plan demonstrates that such dwelling shall be necessary for
         and accessory to forest uses. The Forest Management Plan shall demonstrate
         the following (SMA Only):

                The dwelling will contribute substantially to the growing, propagation, and
                harvesting of trees. The principal purpose for allowing a dwelling on forest
                lands is to enable the resident to conduct efficient and effective management.
                 This requirement shall indicate a relationship between ongoing forest
                management and the need for dwelling on the subject property.

                The    subject   parcel   has    been   enrolled   in the   appropriate    state's   forest
                assessment program.

                A plan for management of the parcel has been approved by the Oregon
                Department of Forestry or Wasco County.              The plan must indicate the
                condition and productivity of lands to be managed; the operations the owner
                will carry out (thinning, harvest, planting, etc.); a chronological description of
                when the operations will occur; estimates of yield, labor, and expenses; and
                how the dwelling will contribute towards the successful management of the
                property.

                There are no other dwellings on the parcel which are vacant or currently
                occupied by persons not engaged in forest management of the subject
                parcel.

                A declaration has been signed by the landowner and recorded into County
                deeds and records specifying that the owners, successors, heirs, and assigns
                of the subject property are aware that adjacent and             nearby    operations    are
                entitled to carry on accepted agricultural or forest practices.

      MISCELLANEOUS          USE

      15. Additions to existing buildings greater than 200 square feet in area or greater
          than the height of the existing building. (GMA & SMA)

      16.Removal/demolition         of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
            septic tanks and fuel tanks.        (GMA & SMA)

      17.Construction,       reconstruction,     or modifications of roads not in conjunction with

Chapter 3-“A-1” Zone
XX,   KX 2010                                                                20100010
                                                                                  Page 3-23

   agriculture if designated in the Adopted Wasco County Transportation System
   Plan or designed and constructed as part of an approved, active development
   order. (GMA Only).

18. Resource Enhancement Projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
  ‘ recreation and/or natural resources subject to the Resource Enhancement
    standards prescribed in Chapter 10: (GMA & SMA)

49.Uninhabitable structures associated with hunting and fishing operations. (GMA
   Only)

20. Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection. (GMA & SMA)

21.Docks and boathouses, subject to the standards below: (GMA & SMA)

   a.   New, private docks and boathouses serving only one family and one property
        shall be allowed, up to 120 square feet in size;

   b. New, private docks and boathouses serving more than              one   family    and
      property shall be allowed, up to 200 square feet in size;

   c.   Public docks open and available for public use shall be allowed.

   d. Boathouses may be allowed under criteria a and b above only                     when
      accessory to a dwelling and associated with a navigable river or lake.

22.Exploration, development, and production of sand, gravel, or crushed rock
    subject to that material being used only for the construction, maintenance, or
    reconstruction of roads used to manage or harvest commercial forest products
    on lands within the SMA. (SMA only)

23.Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed
   in G below, Section 21.100 and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.
   (GMA & SMA)
24. Property line adjustments and Replats that would result in the potential to create
    additional parcels through subsequent land divisions subject to the property
    development standards listed in G below, Section 21.200 and all other applicable
    provisions of Chapter 21. (GMA Only)

25. Temporary portable facility for the primary processing of forest products grown
    upon a parcel of land or contiguous land in the same ownership where the facility
    is to be located. The facility shall be subject to the standards in Chapter 8,
    Temporary Use Permit, and be removed upon completion of the harvest

                                            2 fn 1 f fy 0 1 0          Chapter 3- na" Zone
                                                                              XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-24

            operation. (SMA Only)

E.   Uses Permitted Conditionally
     The following uses and activities may be allowed with conditions on a legal parcel
     designated Large Scale Agriculture subject to Subsection G - Property Development
     Standards, Chapter 5 - Conditional Use Review, Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards
     & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as any other listed or referenced
     standards.

     FARM/FOREST USE

     1. Wineries in conjunction with on-site viticulture upon a showing that processing of
            wine is from grapes grown on the subject farm or in the local region. (GMA Only)

            Wine sales/tasting rooms, in conjunction with an on-site winery.   (GMA Only)

            Boarding of horses. Findings shall be made on property characteristics, parcel
            size and impacts to neighbors, and shall specify the maximum number of horses
            based on those findings and the number of recommended animal units provided
            in the documentation by the OSU Extension Offices and the Natural Resource
            Conservation Service for the geographic area the application is located within.
            (GMA Only)

            Fruits and produce stands, upon a showing that: (GMA & SMA)

            a. Sales will be limited to agricultural products raised on the subject farm and
               other farms in the local region, and

            b. The stand complies with licensing requirements         of the   Food   and   Dairy
               Division of the Oregon Department of Agriculture.

            Agricultural _product_processing and packaging, upon demonstration that the
            processing will be limited to products grown primarily on the subject farm and
            sized to the subject operation. "Primarily" means a clear majority of the product
            as measured by volume, weight, or value. (GMA & SMA)

            Fish hatcheries and aquaculture. (GMA & SMA)

     7.     Silvicultural nurseries. (SMA Only)

     COMMERCIAL USE

            Commercial Events, subject      to Commercial    Events   standards   prescribed   in
            Chapter 20. (GMA Only)

                                                                                  2190010
Chapter 3-“A-1" Zone
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                            Page 3-25

9.   Home occupations or cottage industry in existing residential or accessory
     structures subject to the Home Occupations and Cottage Industries standards
     prescribed in Chapter 20. (GMA & SMA)

     The use or development shall be compatible with agricultural use. Buffer zones
     should be considered to protect agricultural practices from conflicting uses. (SMA
     Only)

10.Bed and Breakfast Inns may be permitted in a lawfully established single family
   dwelling subject to the Bed and Breakfast Inn standards prescribed in Chapter
   20. (GMA & SMA)

11. Special Uses in Historic Buildings subject to Special Uses in Historic Buildings
    standards prescribed in Chapter 20 (GMA Only).

PUBLIC & QUASI-PUBLIC USE

12. Nonprofit resource-related environmental learning facility or nonprofit resource-
    related research facility. (GMA Only)

13.Expansion_of      existing   nonprofit_group   camps,      retreats,    and     conference      or
     education centers for the successful operation on the dedicated site.              Expansion
     beyond the dedicated site is prohibited. (SMA Only)

14. Expansion of existing schoo! or place of worship. (GMA Only)

15.Community facilities and nonprofit        facilities   related   to agricultural      or forest
   resource management. (SMA Only)

16.Recreation Development, subject to Section 14.700.           (GMA Only)

17.Public     recreation,    commercial    recreation,     interpretive,     and      educational
     developments and uses, consistent with Section 14.710.          (SMA Only)

MISCELLANEOUS          USE

48.Road and railroad construction and reconstruction. (SMA Only)

49.Construction, reconstruction, or modifications of roads not in conjunction with
   agriculture if not designated in the Adopted Wasco County Transportation
   System Plan or not designed and constructed as part of an approved, active
   development order . (GMA Only)

                                                    eciancin                     Chapter 3- “A-1" Zone
                                                                                        XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-26

     20.Utility facilities and railroads necessary for public service upon a showing that:
         (GMA & SMA)

            a.   There   is no practicable alternative location with less adverse effect on the
                 scenic, cultural, natural, recreational, agricultural or forest lands; and

            b. The size is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

     21.Personal-use airstrips         including   associated     accessory     structures   such   as    a
        hangar. (GMA Only)

            a. A personal-use airstrip is an airstrip restricted, except for aircraft
               emergencies, to use by the owner and on an infrequent and occasional basis,
               by invited guests, and by commercial aviation activities in connection with
               agricultural operations.

            b.   No aircraft may be based     on a personal-use airstrip other than those owned
                 or controlled by the owner of the airstrip.

     22.Exploration,        development_and    production      of mineral and   geothermal    resources
            subject to the standards prescribed Chapter 10. (GMA Only)

     23.Temporary portable asphalt/batch plants related to public road projects, not to
        exceed six (6) months. (GMA & SMA)

     24.Disposal_sites          managed  and        operated  by      the Oregon   Department  of
        Transportation,        or the Wasco        County Public      Works Department for earth
            materials    and   any _ intermixed   vegetation   generated   by   routine or
            emergency/disaster public road maintenance activities within the Scenic Area,
            subject to Disposal standards prescribed in Chapter 10. (GMA & SMA)

F.   Prohibited Uses

     1.     Subdivisions, Cluster Developments,       Industrial Uses.

     2.   All other uses not listed.

G. Property Development Standards

     1.     Property Size

            a. The creation or alteration of a parcel shall be subject to the following standards:

                                                                              20100010
Chapter 3-“A-1” Zone
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                   Page 3-27

            Zone               Minimum    Parcel Size                   Minimum Parcel Width
            A-1(40)            Forty (40) Acres                  500’
            A-1(60)            Sixty (60) Acres                  500’
            A-1(80)            Eighty (80) Acres                 1,000’
            A-1(160)           One Hundred Sixty (160) Acres __| 1,000’

     b.    In the SMA     no land   divisions will be allowed unless the creation of a new
           parcel will facilitate land acquisition by the federal government to achieve the
           policies and guidelines of the Management Plan. The provisions of Chapter
           14 are not applicable.

2.   General Setbacks - All structures, other than approved signs and fences shall
     comply with the following general setback standards:

      Front Yard                           25’
      Side Yard                            25°
      Rear Yard                            40’

3. Agricultural Setbacks - In addition to the general setback standards listed in
   criterion 2 above, all new buildings to be located on a parcel adjacent to lands
   that are designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are currently
   used for or are suitable for agricultural use, shall comply with the following
     setback standards:

          Adjacent Use                   Open     or    Natural    or Created}   8      foot    Berm    or
                                         Fenced         Vegetation Barrier | Terrain Barrier
          Orchards                       250°           100°                 75
          Row crops/ vegetables          300'           100°                     75
          Livestock ~     grazing,       100°           15'                      20'
          pasture, haying
          Grains                         200'           78°                      50"
          Berries, vineyards             150"           50'                      30°
          Other                          100'           50’                      30'

     a.    Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines.                        The
           berm shall be a minimum         of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured            at 3 to 1
           slopes to look natural. Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shali be employed on
           the berm to contro! erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15) feet.

     b. The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in
        part, the setback guidelines. Trees shall be 6+ feet high when planted and
        reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet. The vegetation screen
        shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be continuous.

                                                          anqarnin
                                                               _                       Chapter 3- “A-1” Zone
                                                                                               XX, OOK 2010
Page 3-28

            c. The necessary berming and/or planting shall be completed during the first
               phase of development and maintained in good condition.

            d. If several crops or crop rotation is involved in the adjacent operation, the
               greater setback shall apply.

            e. A variance to the setback requirements. may be made           in accordance with
               Chapter 6, Variances.

    4,      Irrigation Ditch Setbacks: All dwellings and structures shalt be located outside
            of the easement of any irrigation or water district.       In the absence of an
            easement, all dwellings and structures shall be located a minimum of 50 feet
            from the centerline of irrigation ditches and pipelines which continue past the
            subject parcel to provide water to other property owners. Substandard setbacks
            must receive prior approval from the affected irrigation district. These setbacks
            do not apply to fences and signs. If the irrigation ditch meets the definition of a
            “stream”, the natural resource provisions of Chapter 14 shall apply.

            Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five (35) feet unless
            further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

            Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
            thirty (30) feet.

    7.      Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

H. Special Management Area
   In addition to the standards and conditions listed in this section, and the applicable
   provisions of Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, the following standards apply to the
   agricultural lands in the Special Management Area:

     1.     If a standard or condition of this subsection is more          restrictive   than   other
            subsections of this section, this subsection is controlling;

            No new dwellings or other related major structures shail be permitted on parcels
            of land less than 40 contiguous acres;

            The Forest Service shall, in collaboration with county and/or state regulatory
            agencies, review site plans for forest practices for compliance with SMA forest
            practice guidelines. The Forest Service review of the site plans shall include the
            following analysis:

            a.   Protection of the scenic resources: analysis of potential impacts, including
                 cumulative effects, to scenic values as viewed from the key viewing areas.

Chapter 3-"A-1” Zone                                                   9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                               Page 3-29

     b. Protection     of the cultural resources:        analysis of potential     impacts to the
          cultural resources, including cumulative effects.

     c.   Protection of natural resources: analysis           of   potential    impacts,     including
          cumulative effects; to the natural resources.

     d. Protection of the recreational resources: analysis of potential impacts to the
        recreational resources, including cumulative effects.

4.   New commercial uses and developments other than commercial recreation,
     pursuant to recreational objectives and guidelines set forth in Chapter 4
     Recreation Resources in the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area
     Management Plan, are not permitted in the Special Management Areas.

5.   Clearing trees for new        agricultural   use   is subject to the following         additional
     standards:

     a. A Stewardship Plan subject to criterion d below shall be submitted and
        deemed complete by the county and submitted to the Forest Service for
        review.

     b. Clearing trees for new agricultural use shall be limited to 15 acres.

     c.   If the Stewardship Plan proves that the above guideline is detrimental to the
          proposed agricultural use, the final size of the clearing shall be determined by
          the application in (d)(1-4) below and subject to criterion (i).

     d. After a 30-day public comment period, the Forest Service shall review the
        Stewardship Plan using the following criteria:

          (1) Scenic Resource guidelines in Review Uses 6(d)(1) and (5) below.

          (2) The   applicable   criteria in Section    14.510,    Cultural    Resources,      Section
             14.610 Natural Resources, and Section 14.710 Recreational Resources.

          (3) The Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS) soil unit description
              shall indicate that soils are suitable for the proposed agricultural use. The
              woodland management tables shall be used as part of the analysis of
              suitability for both agricultural and forest uses.

          (4) The size, shape and pattern on the landscape of the clearing for the new
              agricultural use shall blend with the surrounding landscape pattern either
              because the existing pattern includes agricultural openings or because the

                                                         2N1N0010               — crapters-
                                                                                       a1” Zone
                                                                                           XX, 000K 2010
Page 3-30

                     new agricultural opening is designed to appear natural.

               The Forest Service shall send the review statement to the appropriate county
               planning office.  The Forest Service shail state whether or not the new
               agricultural  use  should   proceed   including  any conditions that are
               recommended to be required by the county.

               The county will accept an application for new agricultural use on forested
               lands after receipt of a positive review statement from the Forest Service.

               The forest practice portion of the new agricultural use shall not be approved
               by the state forestry department or county until a decision on the new
               agricultural use is issued from the county.

               The new agricultural use shall be operational within two years of the time
               frame described in the approved Stewardship Plan.

               New     agricultural   uses   with   an   approved   Stewardship   Plan   requiring   more
               than 15 acres shall attain the final approved size sequentially. After the first
               15 cleared acres is operational, each subsequent clearing shall not occur
               until the previous clearing is operational.

    6.      Forest practices shall be subject to a Scenic Area Review and will require an
            application with the following:

               The following additional application material

               (1)Listed on recent aerial photo or detailed map:

                     (a) The size, shape, and exact location of the proposed treatment area
                         including any clumps of leave trees to remain.          [f more than one
                         silvicultural prescription is to be used, code each on the photo.

                  (b) Other important natural features of the subject parcel such as steep
                        areas, streams, wetlands,        rock outcrops, etc.

                  (c) Road and structure construction and/or reconstruction location.

                  (d) Location of proposed rock or aggregate sources.

                     (e) Major skid trails, landings, and yarding corridors.

                  (f) Commercial firewood cutting areas.

Chapter 3-“A-1" Zone                                                              9 n 1 qn     n q n
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                       Page 3-31

     (g)Protection measures        for   scenic,   cultural,    natural    and     recreation
         resources.

  (2) Describe the existing forest in terms of species, ages, sizes, landscape
      pattern (including how it fits into the surrounding landscape pattern) and
     canopy closure for all canopy layers.

  (3) Describe how the forest practice will fit into the existing landscape pattern
     and how    it will meet   scenic and    natural resource        standards   in d and e
     below.

  (4) Written silvicultural prescriptions with projected post-treatment forest
      condition specified in terms of species, ages, sizes, landscape pattern
      (including how it fits into the surrounding landscape pattern) and canopy
     closure for all canopy layers.

  (5) Road and structure construction and/or reconstruction design.

  (6) Existing and proposed rock pit development plans.

  (7) A discussion of slash disposal methods.

  (8) A reforestation plan as reviewed by the Oregon Department of Forestry.

. As part of the application, flag, stake or mark buffers, any trees or downed
  wood to be retained or removed (whichever makes the most sense), and
  areas for placing fill or removing material in preparation for a field visit by the
  reviewer.

. Stewardship Plan Requirements: The following information, in addition to the
  applicable portions of the forest practice application requirements above and
  general site plan requirements shall be provided:

  (1) Outline the long term goals, proposed operations, and future sustainability
     of the subject parcel.

  (2) Describe the time frame and steps planned to reach the long term goals.

  (3) For Forest Practices, describe how the proposed activities fit into the long
      term goals and sustainability of the parce! and/or forest health.       The
      following shall be addressed:

     (a) Describe the range of natural conditions expected in the forest in terms
         of tree species, structure, and landscape pattern.

                                             40    4 q 00      1 9         Chapter 3- “A-1” Zone
                                                                                  XX, KOK 2010
Page 3-32

                    (b) Describe   what   the   resulting   tree   species,     structure,   and    landscape
                        pattern will be after the proposed activities.

                    (c) Give a clear explanation how a deviation from                        the    applicable
                        guidelines may better achieve forest health objectives.

                    (d) Give a clear explanation how and why the proposed activities will lead
                        the forest towards its range of natural variability and result in reaching
                        sustainability, resiliency to disturbances.

                 (4) For clearing trees for new agricultural             use,     the   following    shall   be
                     addressed in addition to (c)(1) & (2) above:

                    (a) Submit NRCS soil unit description and map for each soil unit affected
                        by the proposed clearing or treatment.

                    (b) Based on the needs of the operation, give a clear explanation as to the
                        exact size of the clearing needed and how it will meet the natural and
                        scenic requirements set forth in 5(d)(1) through (4) above.

                    (c) Describe in sufficient detail for evaluation the proposed agricultural
                        use, the improvements needed on the parcel, time line for its
                        establishment, and its marketability.

                    (d) Show evidence that an agricultural specialist, such as the county
                        extension agent, has examined and found the proposed agricultural
                        use reasonable and viable.

            d.   For forest practices, the following scenic resource guidelines shall apply:

                 (1) Forest practices shal] meet the design guidelines and scenic standards for
                     the applicable landscape setting and zone.

                 (2) Created forest openings visible at one time shall be within the desired
                     range for the vegetation type as set forth in (e) below.

                 (3) Size, shape, and dispersal of created forest openings shall maintain the
                     desired natural patterns in the landscape as set forth in (e) below.

                 (4) The maximum size of any created forest opening is set forth by the
                     “Desired” vegetation type in the Forest Structure and Pattern Table below.

                    (a) If the treatment is proposed to go beyond the above guideline based

Chapter 3-“A-1” Zone
                                                                                90490010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                               Page 3-33

         on forest health or ecosystem function requirements, a Stewardship
         Plan shall be required.

     (b) If the Stewardship Plan proves that the above criterion is detrimental to
         either forest health or ecosystem function, the size of the created
         forest opening shall be within the natural range for the vegetation type
         as listed in the Desired Forest Structure and Pattern Table for each
         vegetation type, shall not mimic catastrophic fires, and shall maintain
         scenic standards.

  (5) Created      forest   openings     shall   not create     a break       or opening        in the
     vegetation in the skyline as viewed from a key viewing area.

. Forest practices shall maintain the following in addition to applicable natural
  resources criteria in Section 14.610:

  (1) Silvicultural prescriptions shall maintain the desired natural forest stand
      structures (tree species, spacing, layering, and mixture of sizes) based on
      forest health and ecosystem function requirements.          Forest tree stand
      structure shall meet the requirements        listed in  the    Desired Forest
      Structure and Pattern Table for each vegetation type. Forest tree stand
      structure is defined as the general structure of the forest in each
      vegetation type within which is found forest openings.

  (2) Created forest openings shall be designed as mosaics not to exceed the
      limits defined as Desired in the Desired Forest Structure and Pattern
      Table unless proposed as a deviation as allowed under d(5) above.

  (3) Snag   and     down    wood   requirements       shall be maintained         or created        as
     listed in the Desired             Forest    Structure    and   Pattern     Table    for      each
     vegetation type.

  (4) If the treatment is proposed to deviate from the snag and down wood
      requirements based on forest health or ecosystem function requirements,
      a Stewardship Plan shall be required and shall show and prove why a
      deviation from the snag and down wood requirements is required.

                                                     gnqannt           f

                                                                                 Chapter 3- “A-1" Zone
                                                                                        XX, XXXXK 2010
                                                                                                                                                                                              OLOZ XXXX ‘XX
                                                                                                                                                                                       8U0Z .L-V,-€ Jadeyo
                                                                                                                                                                            JUBIaH Jsea7g Je JeyoweIG :yqa
                                                                                                                                                                             ‘sBujuedo 0} Aidde you sa0q ,
                                                                                                                                    3210 Bely 219g jEUOBEN 89/AJ9g }S8J04 84} JB alqereae dew #
                                                                                                                                                      Pagiedsip
                                                         uqp                                                                                  Ajepim sBuluedc         may sBuluado       “99 JE}O} 10 %GTZ
                        peep Ayjensed io prap       uOZ UBYY                                                                                    eunso}> Adougo          BOUEqNISIO           uey) JoyBauB               yO
        Apeauye yi payunos @q ues sBeus yeQ          Joye                                                                              %Gz - 0 eAey SBUUSdG             ‘YWos Jo0d 0} | Jah) Aioysuapun              “USnaG
                          yap ,0z ueu} ayequ6         saoaid            Penber           (ad uoneyeben Aq %)                                                aoe       enp sBulusdo                 aunsojo
        sBeus ¢ pue up .0Z - .o1 Je seus ¢                 €- 4 | sen ence] ON                          KOL-b              KOl-t          | ueUy ssay sGuredG          (eimeu json |       Adoues %o9-97 | Beorspudg
                                                                                                                                                     pesedsip
                                                           yap                                                                                Ajapim sBuuedQ                                           99 {B10}            ws
                                                    «0% UBUY                                                                                   eunsojo Adoues          SADE Z0}% | JO %SZ uBy} seq | ENOG/euld
                             .                       sejyeas                                                                           %Or - 0 eaey sBulUsdG         “seay Aysueyu! | JeAe| Aioysuepun | BSoIspuog)
                           UP ,0z UB) Jayequ6         seoaid            Pasinber         (ed, uoReyeBan Aq %)                                             aloe           MoO] 0} enp           aunsojo      TayusD
sBeus     ¢ pue   ygp ,0z-,0)      je seus    ¢            9-¢ | se@d area ON                           *OL-1              %Ol- |         $ uey} ssqj sBuluedg |     sBuluedo may |        Adoues %08-oF                  qe
                                                                       eiqeyeae       “sBuluado Buysixe yy
                                                                      sda1} 8715 | Bulpueiq sedeys Je;nBaui                             ainsoja Adoues % OF -                   saoe
                                                                   ysoBue] ayyjo |     jo s1esow pezis ajqeueA                         SL ureyeu sBuUedO GN]           001 4800 ey
                                                                  aoe Jad saa       | ‘pesiedsip Ajopiny Burjas                       aoedg uedo 1/2 pues pug}        aiydoyseyep
                                                                       € apnjou)          @dBOSspUey SPUEIpIIAA                         80/04 JeuONeN Uo ssqy           S@J9B00I-}
                                                                      “sduunyo ul             pue spuejuofuea                            Jo e198 |, sBuluado fy         ey O1esOW
                                                          uqp       pue Gutuedo         “SIEM 86109 10) %y } SIA OOE SI EAI@}U|  (SAM JO PUNOIBaUOs Byy                     sedeys              “(29 1230} Jo
                                                  w0@    UBYy         ynoyBnoiyy | paaoxe 0} 30u pue Buiyes | usnjar aiy asuazuy  ul $98 ¢ oj dn) sauce                   JeinBaut         %09-0) e1qeuen
                                                      JayeaB             e198 sed      adeospue] pueipoony | (aly S1ydouseze9) | ¢) 0} dn sfuluado moj                     ‘wayed |       sade] Aojssepury            Waslues
                           yap ,0z uey} JeyeeuB                    $001} Buysixe           SNQUaPUcD |SenA             %SS O}dn                 Jayoaey>               SIESOW YM                    “ansgjo            Cry Ty
s6eus , pue ‘yap .0z- .0} 38 sBeus OL                  S2-B1 | 30 %G1 eee]                40} %B PABOXe 0} 30N | (GIy DJEs0W)%OL                peysaloy ulelay |    sezis aiqeueA |       AdouRs %08-09
                                                  {parayeos)
                                                   . abe        Js5I0)
                                                  Tar ouory | Po weuwa
                                                                                                                                                                                                Rico]
                                                  OE Sa0ald        SIqeyeag                                                                                         TEEN)     Suo}sIy | “AINSoS AdouES
         HBT UL OP-Oz ale soeug                     DOGMA          Te sepnpouy                Baisag              TEIMIEN) SHOTS                                                         Telor
                                                                                                                                                                                            % aberenyy
          aise led ON (SIeUOD)                      umog                                                                                          Pesnes eoueqnisig                       ainyonays                  ORL
               ‘SBeUS SbeIcAYy                    SBEISAY         Seal] ABO]                BUI] BUG Je SHUJUSO JudDIEg                                                                        358104              Toresban
                       Z                               9                g                                   v                                                                                     Zz                  i
                                                                        Nusl1Vd ONY SYNLONYLS 1S3HO4 GayISAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ye-e eBed
                                                                                        Page 3-35

SECTION 3.130          "A-2" Small Scale Agriculture   Zone (GMA   Only)

A. Purpose                                                         .
   The purpose of the Small Scale Agriculture Zone is to protect and enhance small
   scale agricultural land for agricultural uses. Small Scale Agricultural lands generally:

    1.   Have little potential for consolidation with large-scale agricultural lands and are
         currently devoted to agriculture of a scale too small to support workers or provide
         a significant volume of products for markets or processors; and

    2.   Have a combination of soil capability and size that provides an opportunity for
         direct marketing or part-time/second income agriculture.

B. Uses Permitted Without Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.100 may be allowed without review on
   lands designated Small-Scale Agriculture.

C. Uses Permitted Subject To Expedited Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be allowed on a legal parcel
   designated Small-Scale Agriculture subject to Expedited Review and Subsection G -.
    Property Development Standards and Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards as well as

                                                                                                    82197040
    all other listed or referenced standards.

D   Uses Permitted Subject to Review
    The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated Small
    Scale Agriculture subject to the Subsection G - Property Development Standards,
    Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as
    any other listed or referenced standards.                                ;

    FARM USE

    1.   New   cultivation:   Any operation   that would   cultivate land that has not been
         cultivated.

    2. Agricultural structures, except buildings, in conjunction with agricultural use. Non
       commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit this category are subject
       to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.

    3. Agricultural buildings in conjunction with current agricultural use and, if
       applicable, proposed agricultural use that a landowner would initiate within one
       year and complete within five years, subject to the following standards:

         The size of proposed agricultural buildings shall not exceed the size needed to
         serve the current agricultural use and, if applicable, the proposed agricultural
         use. The applicants shall submit a floor plan showing intended uses of the
         agricultural building (e.g., space for equipment, supplies, agricultural products,
                                                                            Chapter 3- “A-2" Zone
                                                                                   XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-36

            livestock) as well as a Farm       Management     Plan defined in Section    1.200 with
            their land use application:

    RESIDENTIAL USE
    4. One single-family dwelling on any legally existing parcel.

    5. Accessory structures for an existing or approved dwelling that are not otherwise
       allowed outright, eligible for the expedited development review process, or
       allowed in 6 below. Non commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit
       this category are subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.

    6. Accessory building(s) larger than 200 square feet in area or taller than 10 feet in
            height for a dwelling on any parcel:

            a.   Less than or equal -to 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional
                 standards:

                 (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
                    not exceed     1,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
                    accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings           allowed   without
                    review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

                 (2) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

            b.   Larger than 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional standards:

                 (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
                    not exceed 2,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
                    accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings           allowed   without
                    review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

                 (2) The footprint of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 1,500
                    square feet.

                 (3) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

    7. The temporary use of a mobile home in the case of a family hardship, subject to
       the standards for hardship dwellings prescribed in Chapter 8, Temporary Use
       Permits.

     8. Agricultural labor housing subject to the following standards:

            a. The proposed housing is necessary and accessory to a current agricultural
               use as evidenced by the submittal of a Farm Management Plan, defined in
               Section 1.200, with the application;

semen                                                               201ec019
                                                                                     Page 3-37

     b. The housing shall be seasonal unless it is shown that an additional full-time
        dwelling is necessary to the current agricultural use of the subject farm or
        ranch unit.   Seasonal use shall not exceed nine (9) months.

     c. The housing shall be located to minimize the conversion of lands capable of
        production of farm crops or livestock and will not force a significant change in
        or significantly increase the cost of accepted agricultural practices employed
        on nearby lands devoted to agricultural use.

9.   Life Estate - A landowner who sells or otherwise transfers real property in an
     area designated Small Scale Agriculture may retain a life estate.in a dwelling and
     a tract of land surrounding the dwelling.   The life estate tract shall not be
     considered a lot/parcel as defined in this Ordinance.      A second dwelling in
     conjunction with agricultural use may be allowed subject to the following
     standards:

     a. The proposed dwelling is in conjunction        with agricultural use,   as defined,
        subject to the following standards:

        (1) There are no other dwellings on the subject farm or ranch, including all of
            its constituent lots/parcels, contiguous or otherwise, which are vacant or
            currently occupied by persons not directly engaged in farming or working
            on the subject farm or ranch and which could be used as the principal!
            agricultural dwelling;

        (2) The farm or ranch upon which the dwelling will be located is currently
            devoted to agricultural use, as defined, where the day-to-day activities of
            one or more residents of the agricultural dwelling will be principally
            directed to the agricultural use of the land.     Current use includes a
            minimum area which would satisfy (3)(c) below; and

        (3) The operation is a commercial agricultural enterprise as determined by
            the submittal of a Farm Management Plan, defined in Section 1.200, with
            the application and an evaluation of the following factors:

            (a) Size of the entire unit, including all land in the same ownership;

            (b) Operational requirements for the particular agricultural activity common
                to area agricultural operations; and

            (c) The farm or ranch, and all its constituent parcels, is capable of
                producing    at least $40,000   in gross annual        income. This
                determination can be made using the following formula:

           Average     Yield   Per Acre/Unit   x Average   Commodity/Unit    Price x Total

                                                      20100010              xxcox ror0
Page 3-38

                    Acres for Production of Commodity/Units = Income Capability

            b. Upon termination of the Life Estate, the original or second dwelling shall be
               removed.

    MISCELLANEOUS USE

    10. Additions to existing buildings greater than 200 square feet in area or greater
        than the height of the existing building.

     11.Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
        septic tanks and fuel tanks.

     42. Construction, reconstruction, or modifications of roads not in conjunction with
         agriculture if designated in the Adopted Wasco County Transportation System
         Plan or designed and constructed as part of an approved, active development
         order.

    13.Resource         Enhancement         Projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
            recreation and/or natural resources, subject Resource Enhancement standards
            prescribed in Chapter 10.

     14. Uninhabitable structures associated with hunting and fishing operations.

     15. Towers       and   fire stations    for forest fire protection       when   necessary    for public
         service

     16.Docks and boathouses, subject to the standards below:

            a.   New private docks and boathouses serving only one family and one property
                 shall be allowed, up to 120 square feet in size;

            b. New private docks and boathouses serving more than                          one   family    and
               property shall be allowed, up to 200 square feet in size;

            c. Public docks open and available for public use shall be allowed.

            d.   Boathouses    may    be     allowed   under   criteria   a   and    b   above   only     when
                 accessory to a dwelling and associated with a navigable river or lake.

     17.Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed
        in G below, Section 21.100, and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

     48. Property line adjustments and Replats that would result in the potential to create
         additional parcels through subsequent land divisions subject to the property
         development standards listed in G below, Section 21.200, and all other
Chapter 3-“A-2” Zone                                               ac 4 0c 0 4 6
XX, XXX 2010
                                                                                                         Page 3-39

        applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

E. Uses Permitted Conditionally
   The following uses and activities may be allowed with conditions on a legal parcel
   designated Small Scale Agriculture subject to Subsection G - Property Development
   Standards, Chapter 5 — Conditional Use Review, Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards
   & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as any other listed or referenced
   standards.

   FARM/FOREST USE

   4. Wineries, in conjunction with on-site viticulture upon a showing that processing of
      wine is from grapes grown on the subject farm or in the local region.

   2.   Wine sales/tasting rooms, in conjunction with an on-site winery.

   3.   Boarding of horses. Findings shall be made on property characteristics, parcel
        size and impacts to neighbors, and shall specify the maximum number of horses
        based on those findings and the number of recommended animal units provided
        in the documentation by the OSU Extension Offices and the Natural Resource
        Conservation Service for the geographic area the application is located within.

   4.   Fruits and produce stands, upon a showing that:

        a. Sales will be limited to agricultural products raised on the subject farm and
           other farms in the local region, and

        b. The    stand   complies    with     licensing    requirements      of the    Food       and     Dairy
           Division of the Oregon Department of Agriculture.

   5. Agricultural    product   processing       and   packaging,      upon     demonstration        that the
        processing will be limited to products grown              primarily on the subject farm and
        sized to the subject operation.

   6.   Fish hatcheries and Aquaculture.

   COMMERCIAL USE

   7.   Commercial events, subject to the Commercial Events standards prescribed in
        Chapter 20.

   8.   Home     occupations    or   cottage     industry    in   existing    residential     or   accessory
        structures subject to the Home          Occupations and Cottage Industries standards
        prescribed in Chapter 20.

   9.   Bed and Breakfast Inns may be permitted in a lawfully established single family

                                                                                            Chapter 3 "A Zone
                                                                  99100010
Page 3-40

            dwelling subject to the Bed and Breakfast Inn standards prescribed in Chapter
            20.

     10.Special Uses in Historic Buildings subject to Special Uses in Historic Buildings
        standards prescribed in Chapter 20 (GMA Only).

     PUBLIC & QUASI-PUBLIC USE

     11.Nonprofit resource-related environmental                learning facility or nonprofit resource-
            related research facility.

     12.Recreation Development subject to Section 14.700.

     13. Expansion of existing school or place of worship.

     MISCELLANOUS USE
     14. Utility facilities and railroads necessary for public service upon a showing that:

            a.   There   is    no   practicable   alternative   location   with   less   adverse     effect    on
                 agricultural or forest lands; and

            b. the size is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

     15.Personal-use_airstrips             including   associated    accessory      structures     such   as    a
        hangar.

            a. A personal-use airstrip is an airstrip restricted, except for aircraft
               emergencies, to use by the owner and on an infrequent and occasional basis,
               by invited guests, and by commercial aviation activities in connection with
               agricultural operations.

            b.   No aircraft may be based on a personal-use airstrip other than those owned
                 or controlled by the owner of the airstrip.

    16.Exploration,           development    _and_production of mineral and geothermal              resources
            subject to the standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

    17. Temporary portable asphalt/batch plants related to public road projects, not to
        exceed six (6) months.

    18.Cluster developments on lots or parcels forty (40) acres in size or larger in the
       "“A-2(20)" zone, eighty (80) acres in size or larger in the "A-2(40)" zone, or one-
        hundred sixty acres in size or larger in the "A-2(80)" zone, that creates
        lots/parcels smaller than the designated minimum lot/parcel size, subject to the
        provisions of Chapter 18:
Chapter 3-“A-2" Zone                                                       y) C 4 a é G 4 0
XX, XXX 2010
                                                                                         Page 3-41

     19.Disposal_sites         managed   and operated by         the Oregon Department of
        Transportation,       or the  Wasco  County Public       Works Department for earth
          materials     and     any    intermixed   vegetation   generated   by    routine      or
          emergency/disaster public road maintenance activities within the Scenic Area,
          subject to the Disposal standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

     20.Construction, reconstruction, or modifications of roads not in conjunction with
        agriculture if designated in the Adopted Wasco County Transportation System
         Plan or designed and constructed as part of an approved, active development
          order.

F.   Prohibited Uses

     1.   Industrial Uses.

     2.   All other uses not listed.

G. Property Development Standards

     1.   Property Size - The creation or alteration of a parcel shall be subject to the
          following standards:

           Zone               Minimum Parcel Size                 Minimum Parcel Width
           A-2(20)            Twenty (20) Acres                   500’
           A-2(40)            Forty (40) Acres                    500’
           A-2(60)            Sixty (60) Acres                    500’
           A-2(80)            Eighty (80) Acres                   1,000’

     2. General Setbacks - All structures other than approved signs and fences shall
        comply with the following general setback standards:

           Front Yard                        25’
           Side Yard                         25’
           Rear Yard                         40’

     3. Agricuitural Setbacks - In addition to the genera! setback standards listed in
        criterion 2 above, all new buildings to be located on a parcel adjacent to lands
        that are designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are currently
        used for or are suitable for agricultural use, shall comply with the following
          setback staridards:

                                                           DGAGOGLO           castersXX, a2”  zone
                                                                                         XXXX 2010
Page 3-42

                 Adjacent Use                 Open     or   Natural   or Created}    8     foot   Berm   or
                                              Fenced        Vegetation Barrier | Terrain Barrier
                 Orchards                     250'          100°                     75
                 Row crops/ vegetables        300'          100°                     75'
                 Livestock         grazing,   100"          15°                      20'
                 pasture, haying
                 Grains                       200°          75                       50'
                 Berries, vineyards           150’          50’                      30"
                 Other                        100°          50°                      30’

            a.    Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines. The
                  berm shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured at 3 to 1
                  slopes to look natural. Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shall be employed on
                  the berm to control erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15) feet.

            b. The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in
               part, the setback guidelines. Trees shall be 6+ feet high when planted and
               reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet. The vegetation screen
               shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be continuous.

            c. The necessary berming and/or planting must be completed during the first
               phase of development and maintained in good condition.

            d. If several crops or crop rotation is involved in the adjacent operation, the
               greater setback shall apply.

            e. A variance to the setback requirements              may be made      in accordance with
               Chapter 6.

    4.      Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five feet (35') unless
            further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

    5. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
       thirty (30) feet.

    6.      Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

                                                                    96100610
Chapter 3-“A-2” Zone
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                            Page 3-43

   SECTION 3.140      "F-1"     Industrial Forest Zone (GMA Only)

A. Purpose
   The purpose of the Industrial-Forest Zone is to protect and enhance Industrial forest
   land for forest uses. Industrial forest land is land that:

   4. Contains land in the industrial and public ownership classes which occur in large
      tracts, have few residences and are generally bounded by other lands in the
      same ownership classes or by lands in the large woodland class.

   2. Contains land in the non-industrial ownership class which have few residences,
      no organized structural fire protection services, are capable of growing 85 cubic
      feet per acre per year or more of merchantable tree species and are generally
      bounded by lands in the large non-industrial, public or industrial ownership
        classes.

B. Uses Permitted Without Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.100 may be allowed without review on
   lands designated Industrial Forest.

C. Uses Permitted Subject To Expedited Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be , allowed on a legal parcel
   designated Industrial Forest. subject to Expedited Review and Subsection G_ -
   Property Development Standards and Chapter              11 - Fire Safety Standards,      as well
   as all other listed or referenced standards

D. Uses Permitted Subject to Review
   The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated
   Industrial Forest subject to Subsection G - Property Development Standards,
   Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as
   any other listed or referenced standards.

   FOREST/FARM USE

   4.   New cultivation:      Any   operation that would    cultivate land that has    not been
        cultivated.

   2.   Temporary on-site structures which are auxiliary to and used during the term of a
        particular forest operation. The structure shall be subject to the standards in
        Chapter 8, Temporary Use Permit. An "auxiliary" use or structure shall meet the
        following standards:              .

        a. The use or alteration of a structure or land provides help to or is directly
           associated with the conduct of a particular forest practice.

        b. The auxiliary structure is located on-site,      is temporary   in nature, and    is not

                                                             99100010              xx 2002010
Page 3-44

                   designed      to remain     for the forest's entire growth     cycle from      planting   to
                   harvesting.

            c. The auxiliary use is removed when a particular forest practice has concluded.

    3. Temporary portable facility  for the primary processing of forest products grown
       upon a parcel of land or contiguous land in the same ownership where the facility
       is to be located. The facility shall be subject to the standards in Chapter 8,
            Temporary         Use    Permit,    and    be   removed    upon   completion    of   the   harvest
            operation.

    4. Agricultural structures, except buildings, in conjunction with agricultural use. Non
            commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit this category are subject
            to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.

    5. Agricultural buildings in conjunction with current agricultural use and, if
       applicable, proposed agricultural use that a landowner would initiate within one
       year and complete within five years and subject to the following:

            The size of proposed agricultural buildings shall not exceed the size needed to
            serve the current agricultural            use and,   if applicable, the proposed      agricultural
            use.      The applicants shall submit a floor plan showing                intended   uses of the
            agricultural building       (e.g., space for equipment,       supplies,   agricultural products,
            livestock) as well as a Farm              Management      Plan defined in Section      1.200 with
            their land use application:

    6. A temporary mobile home in conjunction with a timber operation subject to a
       finding that security personnel are required to protect equipment associated with
       a harvest operation or the subject forest land from fire. The mobile home shall
       be subject to the standards in Chapter 8, Temporary Use Permit, and must be
       removed upon completion of the subject harvest operation or the end of the fire
       season.

    RESIDENTIAL USE

    7.      One single family dwelling customarily provided in conjunction with agricultural
            use, as defined, subject to the following standards:

            a. There are no other dwellings on the subject farm or ranch, including all of its
               constituent lots/parcels, contiguous or otherwise, which are vacant or
               currently occupied by persons not directly engaged in farming or working on
               the subject farm or ranch and which could be used as the principal
                   agricultural dwelling;

            b. The farm or ranch upon which the dwelling will be located is currently devoted
               to agricultural use, as defined, where the day-to-day activities of one or more

omeenc                                                                   20100010
                                                                                          Page 3-45

          residents of the agricultural dwelling will be principally directed to the
          agricultural use of the land. Current use includes a minimum area which
          would satisfy (c)(4) below; and

     c.   The operation   is a commercial   agricultural enterprise as determined          by the
          submittal of a Farm Management          Plan   defined   in Section     1.200 and     an
          evaluation of the following factors:

          (1) Size of the entire unit including ail land in the same ownership.

          (2) Type(s) of operation (crops, livestock) and acreage;

          (3) Operational requirements for the particular agricultural activity common to
              area agricultural operations; and

          (4) The farm or ranch, and all its constituent parcels, is capable of producing
              at least $40,000 in gross annual income. This determination can be made
              using the following formula:

             Average Yield Per Acre/Unit x Average Commodity/Unit Price x Total
             Acres for Production of Commodity/Units = Income Capability

8. Accessory structures for an existing or approved dwelling that are not otherwise
   allowed outright, eligible for the expedited development review process, or
   allowed in 9 below. Non commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit
   this category are subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.

9.   Accessory building(s) larger than 200 square feet in area or taller than 10 feet in
     height for a dwelling on any legal parcel:

     a.   Less than or equal to 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional
          standards:

          (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
              not exceed 1,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
              accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings allowed without
             review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

          (2) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

     b. Larger than 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional standards:

          (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
             not exceed 2,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
             accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings               allowed   without
             review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

                                                         Q0L08010 mmmery cczer
Page 3-46

               (2) The footprint of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 1,500
                   square feet.

               (3) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

    10. The temporary use of a mobile home in the case of a family hardship subject to
        the standards for hardship dwellings prescribed in Chapter 8, Temporary Use
        Permit.

    41.A second single family dwelling for an agricultural operator's relative subject to
       the following standards:

            a. The dwelling would be occupied by a relative of the agricultural operator or of
               the agricultural operator's spouse who will be actively engaged in the
               management     of the farm or ranch.          Relative means grandparent, grandchild,
               parent, child, brother or sister of the agricultural operator;

            b. The dwelling would be located on the same lot or parcel as the dwelling of the
               principal operator; and

            c. The operation is a commercial agricultural enterprise as determined by and
               an evaluation of criterion D(7)(c) above.

    12. Agricultural labor housing subject to the following standards:

            a. The proposed housing is necessary and accessory to a current agricultural
               use as evidenced       by the submittal of      a Farm   Management      Plan, defined in
               Section 1.200, with the application;

            b. The housing shall be seasonal unless it is shown that an additional full-time
               dwelling is necessary to the current agricultural use of the subject farm or
               ranch unit. Seasonal use shall not exceed nine (9) months.

            G. The housing will be located to minimize the conversion of lands capable of
               production   of farm    crops,   livestock,   or forest products   and   will not force a
               significant change in or significantly increase the cost of accepted agricultural
               or forest practices employed on nearby lands devoted to agricultural or forest
               use.

            d. The operation is a commercial agricultural enterprise as determined by and
               an evaluation of criterion D(7)(c) above.

    13.Life Estate - A landowner who sells or otherwise transfers real property in an
        area designated Industrial Forest Land may retain a life estate in a dwelling and
        a tract of land surrounding the dwelling.   The life estate tract shall not be
Chapter 3-“F-1" Zone                                             3 6 1 0 6 6 10
XX, 1000 2010
                                                                                           Page 3-47

   considered a lot/parcel as defined in this Ordinance. A second dwelling unit in a
   Forest Land designation may be allowed subject to the following standards.

   a. The proposed dwelling is in conjunction             with   agricultural    use    using   the
      standards prescribed in Subsection D(7);

   b. Upon termination of the Life Estate, the original or second dwelling shall be
      removed.

14. Driveways, easement roads, and private roads serving a residence.

MISCELLANEOUS

15.Additions to existing buildings greater than 200 square feet in area or greater
   than the height of the existing building.

16.Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
   septic tanks and fuel tanks.

17.Resource Enhancement Projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
   recreation and/or natural resources, subject to the Resource Enhancement
   standards prescribed in Chapter 10:

18. Uninhabitable structures accessory to hunting and fishing operations.

19.Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection.

20.Recreation Development, subject to Section 14.700.

21.Construction or reconstruction of roads or modifications not in conjunction with
   forest use or practices if designated in the Adopted Wasco County
   Transportation System Plan or designed and constructed as part of an approved,
   active development order.

22.Docks and boathouses, subject to the standards below:

   a.   New private docks and boathouses serving only one family and one property
        shall be allowed, up to 120 square feet in size;

   b. New private docks and boathouses serving more than                        one    family   and
      property shall be allowed, up to 200 square feet in size;

   c.   Public docks open and available for public use shall be allowed.

   d. Boathouses may be allowed under criteria a and b above only when
      accessory to a dwelling and associated with a navigable river or lake.

                                                 30100010                       x         coxzore
 Page 3-48

       23.Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed
          in G below, Section 21.100, and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

       24. Property line adjustments and Replats that would result in the potential to create
           additional parcels through subsequent land divisions subject to the property
             development standards listed in G            below,   subject   to 21.200     and    all other
             applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

- E. Uses Permitted Conditionally
     The following uses and activities may be allowed with conditions on a legal parcel
     designated Industrial Forest subject to Subsection G - Property Development
     Standards, Chapter 5 ~ Conditional Use Review, Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards
     & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as any other listed or referenced
       standards.

       FOREST/FARM USE

       1. Wineries in conjunction with on-site viticulture, upon a showing that processing of
          wine is from grapes grown on the subject farm or in the local region.

       2. Wine sales/tasting rooms, in conjunction with an on-site winery.

       3.    Fruits and produce stands upon a showing that:

             a.   Sales will be limited to agricultural products raised on the subject farm and
                  other farms in the local region, and

             b. The stand complies with licensing requirements               of the    Food      and   Dairy
                Division of the Oregon Department of Agriculture.

       4. Agricultural product processing and packaging upon demonstration that the
          processing will be limited to products grown primarily on the subject farm and
          sized to the subject operation.

       5.    Fish hatcheries and Aquaculture.

       6.    Boarding of horses. Findings shall be made on property characteristics, parcel
             size and impacts to neighbors, and shall specify the maximum number of horses
             based on those findings and the number of recommended animal units provided
             in the documentation by the OSU Extension Offices and the Natural Resource
             Conservation Service for the geographic area the application is located within.

       COMMERCIAL USE

       7.    Home        occupations   or cottage   industry   in existing   residential   or accessory

 Chapter    3-“F-1"Z
 1     00K 2010        ene                                         90100010
                                                                                        Page 3-49

        structures subject to the Home    Occupations and Cottage Industries standards
        prescribed in Chapter 20.

   8.   Bed and breakfast Inns may be permitted in a lawfully established single family
        dwelling subject to the Bed and Breakfast Inn standards prescribed in Chapter
        20.

   9.   Special Uses in Historic Buildings subject to Special Uses in Historic Buildings
        standards prescribed in Chapter 20.

   PUBLIC & QUAS!I-PUBLIC USE

   10.Expansion of existing nonprofit group camps, retreats or conference or education
      centers.

   11. Nonprofit, environmental learning or research facilities.

   MISCELLANEOUS         USE

   12. Utility facilities and railroads necessary for public service upon a showing that:

        a. There is no practicable alternative location with less adverse effect on the
           scenic, cultural, natural, recreational, agricultural or forest lands values; and

        b. the size is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

   13. Exploration, development_and production of mineral and_ geothermal resources
       subject to the standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

   14. Temporary portable asphalt/batch plants related to public road projects, not to
       exceed six (6) months.

   15.Disposal_ sites managed        and operated by the Oregon Department of
       Transportation or the Wasco County Public Works Department for earth
       materials    and    any   intermixed  vegetation   generated  by   routine  or
       emergency/disaster public road maintenance activities within the Scenic Area,
       subject to the Disposal Standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

   16.Construction, reconstruction, or modifications of roads not in conjunction with
      agriculture if not designated in the Adopted Wasco County Transportation
      System Plan or not designed and constructed as part of an approved, active
      development order. (GMA Only)

F. Prohibited Uses

   1. Subdivisions, Cluster Developments, Industrial Uses.
                                                                            Chapter 3- “F-1” Zone

                                                       20100010             «= x xaxz010
Page 3-50

    2.      All other uses not listed.

G. Property Development Standards

    1.      Property Size — The creation or alteration of a parcel shall not result in a parcel
            less than eighty (80) acres and having less than a 1,000’ minimum lot width.

    2.      Structure Siting Standards
            The approval of new dwellings and accessory structures on Industrial Forest
            shall comply with the following standards:

                 The dwelling and structures shall be sited on the lot/parcel so that they shall
                 have the least impact on nearby or adjoining forest operations. Dwellings
                 shall be set back at least two hundred (200) feet from adjacent properties
                 unless they meet the requirements of criterion b below.

                 Clustering or locating proposed development closer to existing development,
                 including roads, on adjacent lands may minimize the impact on nearby or
                 adjacent forest operations and may be considered as an alternative to the
                 two hundred (200) foot setback required in (a) above.

                 Dwellings and accessory buildings shall be setback at least fifty (50) feet from
                 the right of way of the road unless the road is a Scenic Travel Corridor, in
                 which case the provisions of Section 14.300 shall apply.

                 The amount of forest land used to site dwellings, structures, access roads
                 and service corridors shall be minimized.      This can include locating new
                 dwellings and structures as close to existing public roads as possible, thus
                 minimizing the length of access roads and utility corridors; or locating the
                 dwelling, access road and service corridors on portions of the /ot/parcel that
                 are least or poorly suited for forestry. Areas may not be suitable for forestry
                 because of existing nonforest uses, adjacent dwellings and lastly, land
                 productivity.

                 Dwellings shall be located to minimize the risks associated with wildfire.
                 Dwellings shall be located on level slopes when practical, and in any case not
                 on   slopes       which   exceed   forty (40)   percent.   Narrow   canyons   and   draws
                 should be avoided. Dwellings should be located to minimize the difficulty in
                 gaining access to the structure in the case of fire. Dwellings should be
                 located to make the access roads as short and flat as possible.

                 A variance to the Structure Siting Standards may be made in accordance with
                 Chapter 6.

            f.   Agricultural Setbacks - All new buildings to be located on a parcel adjacent to
Chapter 3-“F-1” Zone
XX, XXX 2010                   ;                          . 2610€610
                                                                                    Page 3-51

     lands that are designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are
     currently used for or are suitable for agricultural use, shall comply with the
     following setback standards:

       Adjacent Use                 Open      or    Natural or Created]   8 foot Berm
                                    Fenced           Vegetation Barrier | or      Terrain
                                                                          Barrier
       Orchards                     250°            100'                  75°
       Row crops/ vegetables        300'            100'                   75°
       Livestock         grazing,   100°            15°                    20°
       pasture, haying
       Grains                       200'            75'                    50'
       Berries, vineyards           150'            50°                    30'
       Other                        100'            50'                    30'

     (1) Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines. The
         berm shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured at 3 to
         1 slopes to look natural. Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shall be employed
         on the berm to control erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15)
         feet.

     (2) The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in
         part, the setback guidelines.       Trees shali be 6+ feet high when      pianted
        and reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet. The vegetation
        screen shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be
        continuous.

     (3) The necessary berming and/or planting shall be completed during the first
         phase of development and maintained in good condition.

     (4) If several crops or crop rotation is involved in the adjacent operation, the
         greater setback shail apply.

     (5) A variance to the setback requirements may be made in accordance with
         Chapter 6.

. Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five feet (35') unless
  further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
  thirty (30) feet.

. Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

                                                   QOLOCOLO              —srarters- Fr" zone
Page 3-52

Chapter 3-“F-1" Zone   9   0 1 C ¢ G 1 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                                   Page 3-53

SECTION 3.150        "F-3"   Small Woodland Forest Zone (GMA Only)

A. Purpose
   The purpose of the Small Woodland-Forest Zone is to protect and enhance Small
   Woodland forest land for forest uses.      Small woodland forest land is land that
   contains land in the nonindustrial ownership class which occur in smaller tracts,
   have organized structural fire protection services, are capable of growing fifty (50)
   cubic feet per acre per year or more of merchantable tree species and are generally
   bounded by other lands in the same ownership class or lands devoted to nonforest
   use.

   Uses Permitted Without Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.100 may be allowed without review on
   lands designated Smail Woodland Forest.

   Uses Pennitted Subject To Expedited Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be allowed on a legal parcel
   designated Small Woodland Forest subject to Expedited Review and Subsection G -
   Property Development Standards and Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards, as well
   as all other listed or referenced standards

   Uses Permitted Subject to Review
   The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated Small
   Woodland Forest subject to Subsection G - Property Development_Standards,
   Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as
   any other listed or referenced standards.

   FOREST/FARM USE

   4.   New cultivation:     Any   operation   that would   cultivate   land   that    has   not      been
        cultivated,

   2. Temporary on-site structures which are auxiliary to and used during the term of a
      particular forest operation. The structure shall be subject to the standards in
      Chapter 8, Temporary Use Permit. An "auxiliary" use or structure shall meet the
      following standards:

        a.   The use or alteration of a structure or land provides help to or is directly
             associated with the conduct of a particular forest practice.

        b. The auxiliary structure is located on-site, is temporary in nature, and is not
           designed to remain for the forest's entire growth cycle from planting to
             harvesting.

        c.   The auxiliary use is removed when a particular forest practice has concluded.

                                                  20100010                            One, XK2010
Page 3-54

    3. Temporary portable facility for the primary processing of forest products grown
            upon a parcel of land or contiguous land in the same ownership where the facility
            is to be located. The facility shall be subject to the standards in Chapter 8,
            Temporary Use Permit, and be removed upon completion of the harvest
            operation.

    4. Agricultural structures, except buildings, in conjunction with agricultural use. Non
       commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit this category are subject
       to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.

    5. Agricultural buildings in conjunction with current agricultural use and, if
       applicable, proposed agricultural use that a landowner would initiate within one
       year and complete within five years and meet the following:

            The size of proposed agricultural buildings shall not exceed the size needed to
            serve the current agricultural use and, if applicable, the proposed agricultural
            use. The applicants shall submit a floor plan showing intended uses of the
            agricultural building (e.g., space for equipment, supplies, agricultural products,
            livestock) as well as a Farm Management Plan defined in Section 1.200 with
            their land use application:

    RESIDENTIAL USE

    6. One (1) single family dwelling on a legally created lot/parcel upon enrollment in
       the forest deferral taxation by the County Assessor's Office, or subject to findings
       that the lot/parcel cannot qualify for forest deferral taxation, a lot/parcel is entitled
            to one (1) single family dwelling.   In either case, a declaration shail be signed by
            the land owner and recorded into County deeds and records specifying that the
            owners, successors, heirs and assigns of the subject property are aware that
            adjacent and nearby operators are entitled to carry on accepted farm or forest
            practices on lands designated Forest or Agriculture.

    7. One single family dwelling customarily provided in conjunction with agricultural
       use, as defined, subject to the following standards:

            a. There are no other dwellings on the subject farm or ranch, including all of its
               constituent lots/parcels, contiguous or otherwise, which are vacant or
               currently occupied by persons not directly engaged in farming or working on
               the subject farm or ranch and which could be used as the principal
               agricultural dwelling;

            b. The farm or ranch upon which the dwelling will be located is currently devoted
               to agricultural use, as defined, where the day-to-day activities of one or more
               residents of the agricultural dwelling will be principally directed to the
               agricultural use of the land. Current use includes a minimum area which
               would satisfy (c)(4) below; and
Chapter 3-“F-3" Zone

0 O                                                           20100010
                                                                                            Page 3-55

     c. The operation is a commercial agricultural enterprise as determined                  by an
        evaluation of the following factors:

          (1) Size of the entire unit, including all land in the same ownership;

          (2) Type(s) of operation (crops, livestock) and acreage;

          (3) Operational requirements for the particular agricultural activity common to
              area agricultural operations; and

          (4) The farm or ranch, and all its constituent parcels, is capable of producing
              at least $40,000 in gross annual income. This determination can be made
              using the following formula:

             Average     Yield   Per Acre/Unit x Average        Commodity/Unit      Price x Total
             Acres for Production of Commodity/Units = Income Capability

8.   Accessory structures for an existing or approved dwelling that are not otherwise
     allowed outright, eligible for the expedited development review process, or
     allowed in 9 below. Non commercial wind energy conversions systems which fit
     this category are subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.

9.   Accessory building(s) larger than 200 square feet in area or taller than 10 feet in
     height for a dwelling on any parcel:

     a.   Less than or equal to 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional
          standards:

          (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
              not exceed 1,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to all
             accessory     buildings   on   a   parcel,   including   buildings   allowed   without
             review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

          (2) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

     b. Larger than 10 acres in size are subject to the following additional standards:

          (1) The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall
              not exceed 2,500 square feet in area. This combined size limit refers to ail
              accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings allowed without
              review, existing buildings and proposed buildings.

          (2) The footprint of any individual accessory building shall not exceed            1,500
              square feet.

                                                            90100010              Chapter Sani
Page 3-56

               (3) The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

    40. The temporary use of a mobile home in the case of a family hardship, subject to
        the standards for hardship dwellings prescribed in Chapter 8, Temporary Use
        Permit.

    11.A second single family dwelling for an agricultural operator's relative subject to the
       following standards:

            a. The dwelling would be occupied by a relative of the agricultural operator or of
               the agricultural operator's spouse who will be actively engaged in the
               management of the farm or ranch. Relative means grandparent, grandchild,
               parent, child, brother or sister of the agricultural operator,

            b. The dwelling would be located on the same lot or parcel as the dwelling of the
               principal operator; and

            c. Criteria 7(c)(1) — (4) above.

    12. Agricultural labor housing subject to the following standards:

            a. The proposed housing is necessary and accessory to a current agricultural
               use as evidenced by the submittal of a Farm Management Plan, defined in
               Section 1.200, with the application:

            b. The housing shall be seasonal unless it is shown that an additional full-time
               dwelling is necessary to the current agricultural use of the subject farm or ranch
               unit. Seasonal use shall not exceed nine (9) months.

            c. The housing will be located to minimize the conversion of lands capable of
               production of farm crops, livestock, or forest products and will not force a
               significant change in or significantly increase the cost of accepted agricultural
               or forest practices employed on nearby lands devoted to agricultural or forest
               use.

     13.Life Estate - A landowner who sells or otherwise transfers real property in an
         area designated Smal! Woodland may retain a life estate in a dwelling and a
         tract of land surrounding the dwelling.       The life estate tract shall not be
         considered a lot/parcel as defined in this Ordinance. A second dwelling unit in a
         Forest Land designation may be allowed subject to the following standards.

            a. The proposed dwelling is in conjunction with         agricultural   use   using   the
               standards prescribed in Subsection D(7); or

            b. One (1) single family dwelling on a legally created lot/parcel upon enrollment

XK FOX 2010                                                        20100010
                                                                                          Page 3-57

        in the forest deferral taxation by the County Assessor's Office, or subject to
        findings that the lot/parcel cannot qualify for forest deferral taxation, a
        loUparcel is entitled to one (1) single family dwelling.    In either case, a
        declaration   shall   be   signed   by the   land   owner   and   recorded    into County
        deeds and records specifying that the owners, successors, heirs and assigns
        of the subject property are aware that adjacent and nearby operators are
        entitled to carry on accepted farm or forest practices on lands designated
        Forest or Agriculture.

   c.   Upon termination of the Life Estate, the original or second dwelling shall be
        removed.

14, Driveways, easement roads, and private roads serving a residence.

MISCELLANEOUS USE

15.Additions to existing buildings greater than 200 square feet in area or greater
   than the height of the existing building.

16.Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
   septic tanks and fuel tanks.

17.Resource Enhancement Projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
   recreation and/or natural resources, subject to the Resource Enhancement
   standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

18. Uninhabitable structures accessory to hunting and fishing operations.

19. Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection.

20.Recreation development,            subject   to   Section    14.700    and   the    Recreation
   Development Plan.

21. Construction or reconstruction of roads or modifications not in conjunction with
    forest use or practices if designated in the Adopted Wasco County Transportation
    System Plan or designed and constructed as part of an approved, active
    development order.

22. Docks and boathouses, subject to the standards below:

   a.   New, private docks and boathouses serving only one family and one property
        shall be allowed, up to 120 square feet in size;

   b. New, private docks and boathouses serving more than                       one   family   and
    ’ property shail be allowed, up to 200 square feet in size;

                                                            QZOLOCO10 rm oo cere
Page 3-58

            c.   Public docks open and available for public use shall be allowed.

            d. Boathouses may be allowed under criteria a and b above only                                when
               accessory to a dwelling and associated with a navigable river or lake.

    23.Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed
       in G below, Section 21.100 and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

    24. Property line adjustments and Replats that would result in the potential to create
            additional   parcels   through    subsequent    land    divisions   subject    to the    property
            development standards listed in G              below,    Section     21.200,    and     ail   other
            applicable provisions of Chapter 21.

E. Uses Permitted Conditionally
   The following uses and activities may be allowed with conditions on a legal parcel
   designated Small Woodland subject to Subsection G - Property Development
   Standards, Chapter 5 — Conditional Use Review, Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards
   & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as any other listed or referenced
   standards.

    FOREST/FARM USE

     1.     Wineries, in conjunction with on-site viticulture upon a showing that processing of
            wine is from grapes grown on the subject farm or in the location region.                              ;

    2. Wine sales/tasting rooms,             in conjunction with an on-site winery.

    3.      Fruits and produce stands, upon a showing that:

            a.   Sales will be limited to agricultural products raised on the subject farm and
                 other farms in the local region, and

            b. The stand complies with licensing requirements of the Food and Dairy Division
               of the Oregon Department of Agriculture.

    4. Agricultural product_processing and packaging, upon demonstration that the
       processing will be limited to products grown primarily on the subject farm and
       sized to the subject operation.

    5.      Fish hatcheries and Aquaculture.

    6.      Boarding of horses. Findings shall be made on property characteristics, parcel
            size and impacts to neighbors, and shall specify the maximum number of horses
            based on those findings and the number of recommended animal units provided
            in the documentation by the OSU Extension Offices and the Natural Resource
            Conservation Service for the geographic area the application is located within.
Chapter 3-"F-3” Zone
XX, 100K 2010                                                                   90100010
                                                                                       Page 3-59

COMMERCIAL USE

7.   Commercial    Events,   subject   to Commercial     Events   standards     prescribed    in
     Chapter 20.

8.   Home occupations or cottage industry in existing residential or accessory
     structures subject to the Home Occupations and Cottage Industries standards
     prescribed in Chapter 20.                               ;

9.   Bed and breakfast Inns may be permitted in a lawfully established single family
     dwelling subject to the Bed and Breakfast Inn standards prescribed in Chapter
     20.

10.Special Uses in Historic Buildings subject to Special Uses in Historic Buildings
   standards prescribed in Chapter 20.

PUBLIC & QUASI-PUBLIC USE

11.Expansion of existing nonprofit group camps, retreats, or conference
   centers.

12. Nonprofit resource-related     environmental    learning facility or nonprofit resource-
    related research facilities.

MISCELLANEOUS         USE

13..Utility facilities and railroads necessary for public service upon a showing that:

     a. There is no practicable alternative location with less adverse effect on scenic,
        cultural, natural or recreation resources, agricultural lands, or forest lands;
        and

     b. the size is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

14.Exploration, development_and        production   of minerai and geothermal       resources
     subject to the standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

15. Temporary portable asphalt/batch plants related fo public road projects, not to
    exceed six (6) months.

16. Cluster developments on lots or parcels forty (40) acres in size or larger in the "F-
    3(20)" zone, eighty (80) acres in size or larger in the "F-3(40)" zone, or one-
    hundred sixty acres in size or larger in the "F-3(80)" zone, that creates lots/parcels
    smaller than the designated minimum lot/parcel size, subject to the provisions of
    Chapter 18.

                                                    20 { 0c 0 1 0             iid “F-3" Zone
Page 3-60

     17.Disposal        sites    managed      and    operated   by        the     Oregon   Department     of
            Transportation,     or   the   Wasco    County   Public       Works     Department   for   earth
            materials    and   any   intermixed   vegetation   generated  by   routine  or
            emergency/disaster public road maintenance activities within the Scenic Area,
            subject to Disposal standards prescribed in Chapter 10.

     18.Construction, reconstruction, or modifications of roads not in conjunction with
        forest use or practices if not designated in the Adopted Wasco County
        Transportation System Plan or not designed and constructed as part of an
        approved, active development order . (GMA Only)

F.   Prohibited Uses

     Ail other uses not listed.

G.   Property Development Standards

     4.     Property Size - The creation or alteration of a parcel shall be subject to the
            following standards:

             Zone               Minimum Parcel Size                        Minimum Parcel Width
             F-3(20)            Twenty (20) Acres                          500’
             F-3(40)            Forty (40) Acres                           500’
             F-3(80)            Eighty (80) Acres                          1,000’

     2. Structure Siting Standards                                    :
            The approval of new dwellings and accessory structures on Small Woodland
            lands shall comply with the following standards:

            a. The dwelling and structures shall be sited on the lot/parcel so that they shall
                 have the least impact      on nearby   or adjoining forest operations.          Dwellings
                 shall be set back at least two hundred (200) feet from adjacent properties
                 unless they meet the requirements of criterion b below.

            b. Clustering or locating proposed development closer to existing development,
               including roads, on adjacent lands may minimize the impact on nearby or
               adjacent forest operations and may be considered as an alternative to the
               two hundred (200) foot setback required in criterion a above.

                 Dwellings and accessory buildings shall be setback at least fifty (50) feet from
                 the right of way of the road unless the road is a Scenic Travel Corridor,                 in
                 which case the provisions of Section 14.300 shall apply.

            c.   Developments subject to Chapter 18 cluster development siting standards may

XK OK 2010                                                                      20100010
                                                                                        Page 3-61

      be granted a variance to the two hundred (200) foot setback in order to best
      protect the sceriic, natural, cultural and recreational resources of a site in
      accordance with chapters 6.

    . The amount of forest land used to site dwellings, structures, access roads
      and service corridors shall be minimized.     This can inciude locating new
      dwellings and structures as close to existing  public roads as possible, thus
      minimizing the length of access roads and utility corridors; or locating the
      dwelling, access road and service corridors on portions of the lot/parcel that
      are leastor poorly suited for forestry. Areas may not be suitable for forestry
      because of existing nonforest uses, adjacent dwellings and lastly, land
      productivity.

    . Dwellings shail be located to minimize the risks associated with wildfire.
      Dwellings shall be focated on level slopes when practical, and in any case not
      on slopes which exceed forty (40) percent.      Narrow canyons and draws
      should be avoided. Dwellings should be located to minimize the difficulty in
      gaining access to the structure in the case of fire. Dwellings should be
      located to make the access roads as short and flat as possible.

.     A variance to the Structure Siting Standards may be made in accordance with
      Chapter 6.

    . Agricultural Setbacks - All new buildings to be located on a parcel adjacent to
      lands that are designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are
      currently used for or are suitable for agricultural use, shall comply with the
      following setback standards:

        Adjacent Use                 Open     or   Natural or Created)     8     foot    Berm
                                     Fenced        Vegetation Barrier |    or      Terrain
                                                                           Barrier
        Orchards                     250°          100"                    75°
        Row crops/ vegetables        300"          100'                    75
        Livestock         grazing,   100'          15°                     20'
        pasture, haying
        Grains                       200'          78                      50’
        Berries, vineyards           150’          50'                     30'
        Other                        100'          50'                     30°

      (1) Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines. The
          berm shail be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured at 3 to
         1 slopes to look natural.    Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shall be employed
         on the berm to control erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15)
         feet.

      (2) The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in

                                              20100010                    enerx OK 2040
Page 3-62

                  part, the setback guidelines. Trees shall be 6+ feet high when planted
                  and reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet. The vegetation
                  screen. shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be
                  continuous.

               (3) The necessary berming and/or planting shall be completed during the first
                   phase of development and maintained in good condition.

               (4) If several crops or crop rotation is involved in the adjacent operation, the
                  greater setback shall apply.

               (5) A variance to the setback requirements may be made in accordance with
                  Chapter 6, Variances.

    3.      Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five feet (35') unless
            further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

    4. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on comer properties shall be a minimum of
       thirty (30) feet.

     5.     Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

Chapter 3-“F-3” Zone                                            9 0 1 0 C 0 10     |
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                     Page 3-63

SECTION 3.160       "R-R"    Rural Residential Zone (GMA & SMA)

A. Purpose
   Residential development may locate outside Urban Areas so long as it does not
   adversely affect the scenic, cultural, natural and recreation resources. In addition to
   consideration of these factors, lands may be designated as residential if deemed
   suitable for residential development, taking into account the physical characteristics
   of the areas in question and their geographic                 proximity   to transportation           and
   commercial facilities and other amenities.

   Uses Permitted Without Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.100 may be allowed without review on
   lands designated Residential. (GMA & SMA)

   Uses Permitted Subject To Expedited Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be aliowed on a legal parcel
   designated Residential subject to Expedited Review and subsection G - Property
   Development Standards and Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards, as well as ail other
   listed or referenced standards. (GMA & SMA)

   Uses Permitted Subject to Review
   The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated
   Residential subject to Subsection G - Property Development Standards, Chapter 11
   — Fire Safety Standards & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as weil as any other
   listed or referenced standards.

   RESIDENTIAL USE

   1. One (1) single family dwelling per legally created lot/parcel.           (GMA Only)

   2. Accessory structures for an existing or approved dwelling that are not otherwise
      allowed outright, eligible for the expedited development review process, or
      allowed in criterion 3 below. Non commercial wind energy conversion systems
      which fit this category are subject to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19.
      (GMA & SMA)

   3.   Accessory building(s) larger than 200 square feet in area or taller than 10 feet in
        height for a dwelling on any legal parcel are subject to the following additional
        standards: (GMA & SMA)

        a. The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall not
           exceed    1,500   square   feet   in area.   This    combined     size   limit   refers     to all
           accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings allowed without review,
           existing buildings and proposed buildings.

                                                                                       Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone
                                                               2010C010                      XX, 100K 2010
Page 3-64

            b. The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

            The temporary use of a mobile home in the case of a family hardship, subject to
            the standards for hardship dwellings prescribed in Chapter 8, Temporary Use
            Permit. (GMA & SMA)

            Parcel must be 40 acres or greater.    (SMA only)

    FARM USE

    5.      New cultivation in the GMA and SMA, or new agricultural use in the SMA outside
            of previously disturbed and regularly worked fields or areas.

            Clearing trees for new agricultural use is subject to 3.120(D)(1) of the Large
            Scale Agriculture zone. (SMA Only).

            Agricultural structures, except buildings, in conjunction with agricultural use. Non
            commercial wind energy conversion systems which fit this category are subject
            to the applicable provisions of Chapter 19. (GMA Only)

            Agricultural_buildings in conjunction with current agricultural use and, if
            applicable, proposed agricultural use that a landowner would initiate within one
            year and complete within five years, subject to the following standards:

            The size of proposed agricultural buildings shall not exceed the size needed to
            serve the current agricultural use and, if applicable, the proposed agricultural
            use. The applicants shall submit a floor plan showing intended uses of the
            agricultural building (e.g., space   for equipment,   supplies,   agricultural products,
            livestock) as well as a Farm Management         Plan defined in Section      1.200 with
            their land use application. (GMA Only)

     MISCELLANEOUS USE

            Additions to existing buildings greater than 200 square feet in area or greater
            than the height of the existing building. (GMA & SMA)

     9.     Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
            septic tanks and fuel tanks.   (GMA & SMA)

     40.Construction, reconstruction or modification of roads if designated in the Adopted
         Wasco County Trarisportation System Plan or designed and constructed as part
         of an approved, active development order (GMA & SMA) and railroads (SMA
         Only).

Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone
                                                              20100610
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                   Page 3-65

 11.Resource enhancement projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
    recreation and/or natural  resources,  Resource   Enhancement     standards
     prescribed in Chapter 10. (GMA & SMA)

 12.Docks and boathouses, subject to the standards below: (GMA & SMA)

     a.   New, private docks and boathouses serving only one family and one property
          shall be allowed, up to 120 square feet in size;

     b. New, private docks and boathouses serving more than                         one      family     and
        property shall be allowed, up to 200 square feet in size;

     c.   Public docks open and available for public use shall be allowed.

     d. Boathouses may be allowed under criteria a and b above only when
        accessory to a dwelling and associated with a navigable river or lake.

 13.Cluster developments on lots or parcels ten (10) acres in size or larger in the "R-
     R(5)", or twenty (20) acres in size or larger in the "R-R(10)" zone, that create
     lots/parcels smaller than the designated minimum lot/parcel size, subject to the
     provisions of Chapter 18. (GMA Only)

 14,Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed
    in G below, Section 21.100 and ail other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.
     (GMA & SMA)
 15. Property line adjustments and Replats that would result in the potential to create
     additional parcels through subsequent land divisions subject to the property
     development     standards      listed   in G   below,   Section   21.100     and     all applicable
     provisions of Chapter 21.       (GMA Only)

 16.Forest    Practices   subject    to   3.120(D)(2)    of the   Large   Scale    Agriculture        zone.
     (SMA Only)

. Uses Permitted Conditionally
  The following uses and activities may be allowed with conditions on a legal parcel
  designated Residential subject to Subsection G - Property Development Standards,
  Chapter 5 - Conditional Use Review, Chapter 11 - Fire Safety Standards & Chapter
  14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as any other listed or referenced standards.

 FARM USE

 1. Wineries, in conjunction with onsite viticulture, upon a showing that processing of

                                                             20 1 0 C 6 1 0             Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone
                                                                                              XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-66

            wine is from grapes grown on the subject farm or in the iocal region.           (GMA Only)

    2. Wine_sales/tasting rooms in conjunction             with   an    on-site   winery,    under   the
       following conditions: (GMA Only)

            a. The use shall comply with the criteria in Chapter 20 for Home Occupations
               and Cottage industries as well as the following:

                (1) The use may employ an unlimited number of outside employees.

                (2) The wine sales/asting room may include interior and/or exterior space,
                    provided the combined interior and exterior spaces shall not exceed 1,000
                   square feet.                                               ;

                (3) The interior space may be located in an existing building or in a new
                    building or addition to an existing building constructed for the primary
                    purpose of housing the wine sales/tasting room.

                (4) The   exterior space   may   be a veranda,    patio, or other similar type of
                   structure.

    COMMERCIAL USE

    3. Commercial events, subject to the Commercial               Events standards prescribed in
       Chapter 20. (GMA Only)

            Home_occupations or cottage industry in existing residential or accessory
            structures subject to the Home Occupations and Cottage industries standards
            prescribed in Chapter 20. (GMA & SMA)

            Bed_and Breakfast Inns, may be permitted in a lawfully established single-family
            dwelling located subject to the Bed and Breakfast Inn standards prescribed in
            Chapter 20. (GMA & SMA)

            Special Uses in Historic Buildings subject to Special Uses in Historic Buildings
            standards prescribed in Chapter 20 (GMA Only).

            Accredited child care center within a RR-1 or RR-2 designation. A child care
            center may be permitted in other Residential designations within an existing
            church or community building. (GMA Only)

            Boarding of horses on lands designated 10-acre Residential.            Findings shall be
            made on property characteristics, parcel size and impacts to neighbors, and shall
            specify the maximum number of horses based on those findings and the number

Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone                                                   9 0 1 0 G 6 1 0
XX, AXXX 2010
                                                                                                           Page 3-67

          of recommended            animal     units    provided     in the    documentation      by the        OSU
          Extension       Offices   and      the   Natural      Resource      Conservation     Service    for    the
          geographic area the application is located within.

     PUBLIC & QUASI-PUBLIC USE

     9.   School within an existing church or community building. (GMA Only)

     10.Expansion of existing primary or middle schools on land purchased prior to June
        8, 1999. For purposes of this section, existing schools means public schools that
        existed prior to adoption of the original Management Plan on October 15, 1991.
        (GMA Only)

     11.Community parks and playgrounds, consistent with the standards of the National
          Park and        Recreation   Society regarding the need               for such facilities.     (GMA      &
          SMA)
     12.Recreation development, subject to Section 14.300.                       (GMA Only)

     13.Fire stations.       (GMA & SMA)

     MISCELLANEOUS              USE

     14.Utility facilities and railroads.          (GMA & SMA)

     15. Construction, reconstruction,             or_modifications of roads not in conjunction with
          agriculture      if not   designated         in the   Adopted       Wasco   County     Transportation
          System Plan or not designed and constructed as part of an approved,                               active
          development order. (GMA Only)

F.   Prohibited Uses

     All other uses not listed.

G. Property Development Standards

     1.   Property Size

          a.   The creation or alteration of a parcel shalji be subject to the following standards:

                Zone                      Minimum Parcel Size                      Minimum Parcel Width
                 R-R(1)                   One (1) Acre                             125’
                 R-R(2)                   Two (2) Acres                            125’
                 R-R(5)                   Five (5) Acres                           300’

                                                                   2 0 1 0 ¢ 6 1 0              Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone
                                                                                                       XX, XXKX 2010
Page 3-68

                [ R-R(10)              | Ten (10) Acres                | 330’                             |

            b. In the SMA no land divisions are permitted unless the creation of a new
               parcel will facilitate land acquisition by the federal government to achieve the
               policies and guidelines of the Management Plan. The provisions of Chapter
               14 are not applicable.

    2.      General Setbacks - all structures other than approved           signs and fences shall
            comply with the following general setback standards:

             Front Yard                        25°
             Interior Side Yard                15°
             Exterior Side Yard                20’
             Rear Yard                         20’

     3. All new structures to be located on a parcel adjacent to lands that are designated
        Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are currently used for or are suitable
        for agricultural use shall comply with the following setback standards:

              Adjacent Use                   Open     or   Natural or Created)   8     foot   Berm   or
                                             Fenced        Vegetation Barrier|   Terrain Barrier
                Orchards                     250°          100'                  75
              Row crops/ vegetables          300°          100’                  75°
              Livestock         grazing,     100°          15°                   20°
              pasture, haying
              Grains                         200'          75°                   50'
              Berries, vineyards             150°          50°                   30'
              Other                          100°          50"                   30°

                Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines. The
                berm shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured at 3 to 1
                slopes to look natural. Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shall be employed on
                the berm to control erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15) feet.

                The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in
                part, the setback guidelines. Trees shall be 6+ feet high when planted and
                reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet. The vegetation screen
                shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be continuous.

                The necessary berming and/or planting must be completed during the first
                phase of development and maintained in good condition.

                If several crops or crop rotation is involved in the adjacent operation, the
                greater setback shail apply.

Chapter _—       Zone                                              9 0 1 0 G 0 1 0
XX, HKXX 2010
                                                                                  Page 3-69

     e. A variance to the setback requirements may be made         in accordance with
        Chapter 6.

4.   Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five feet (35') unless
     further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

5. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
   thirty (30) feet.

6.   Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

                                                     20100010           Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone
                                                                               XX, XXXX 2010
Chapter 3-“R-R” Zone
XX, XXX 2010
                       90100010
                                                                                              Page 3-71

SECTION 3.170     "PR"    Public Recreation Zone (GMA & SMA)

A. Purpose
   To protect and enhance opportunities for publicly-owned, moderate and high intensity
   resource-based recreation uses on lands most suitable for such uses.

   Uses Permitted Without Review .
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.100 may be allowed without review on
   lands designated Public Recreation. (GMA & SMA)

   Uses Permitted Subject To Expedited Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be allowed on a legal parcel
   designated Public Recreation subject to Expedited Review and Subsections H -
   Property Development Standards and Chapter 11 - Fire Protection Standards, as
   well as all other listed or referenced standards. (GMA & SMA)

   Uses Permitted Subject to Review
   The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated Public
   Recreation, subject to Subsection H - Property Development Standards, Chapter 11
   - Fire Protection Standards & Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, as well as any
   other listed or referenced standards. (GMA & SMA)

   1.   Publicly-owned,   resource   based   recreation   uses,   as defined,   subject to Section
        14.700 (GMA Only).

   2. Commercial uses and non-resource based recreation uses which are part of an
      existing or approved resource-based public recreation use consistent with the
      criteria for such uses contained in this section. (GMA Only)

   3.   New cultivation in the GMA and SMA, or new agricultural use in the SMA outside
        of previously disturbed and regularly worked fields or areas.

        Clearing trees for new agricultural use is subject to the 3.120(I)(5), Large Scale
        Agriculture Zone. (SMA Only)

   Uses Permitted Conditionally
   The following uses and activities may be allowed with conditions on a legal parcel
   designated Public Recreation subject to Subsection G — Conditional Use Approval
   Standards, Subsection H - Property Development Standards, Chapter 5 -
   Conditional Use Review, Chapter 11 - Fire Protection Standards & Chapter 14 -
   Scenic Area Review, as well as any other listed or referenced standards.

                                                          9 0 1 0 C 6 1 0          Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone
                                                                                         XK XKKK 2010
Page 3-72

    RESIDENTIAL USE

    1.      Single Family Dwelling

            a.   GMA: The parcel must have been legally created prior to 15 October 1991.
                 Exceptions may be considered to the limitation of one dwelling only upon
                 demonstration that more than one residence is necessary for management of a
                 public park.

            b. SMA:     The parcel must be 40 contiguous acres or larger and meet the
               standards required for a dwelling customarily provided in conjunction with an
               agricultural use in 3.120(D)(5), or a dwelling customarily provided in
               conjunction with a forest use in 3.120(D)(14), or show that it is necessary for
               public recreation site management purposes.

    2. Accessory structures for an existing or approved dwelling that are not otherwise
       allowed outright, eligible for the expedited development review process, or
       allowed in criterion 3 below. (GMA & SMA)

    3.      Accessory building(s) larger than 200 square feet in area or taller than 10 feet in
            height for a dwelling on any legal parcel are subject to the following additional
            standards: (GMA & SMA)

            a. The combined footprints of all accessory buildings on a single parcel shall not
                 exceed    1,500   square   feet   in area.   This   combined   size   limit refers   to all
                 accessory buildings on a parcel, including buildings allowed without review,
                 existing buildings and proposed buildings.

            b.   The height of any individual accessory building shall not exceed 24 feet.

    4.      Ona   parcel of 40 acres or greater with an existing dwelling, the temporary use of
            a mobile home in the case of a family hardship, subject to the standards for
            hardship dwellings prescribed in Chapter 8, Temporary Use Permit. (SMA Only)

    5. Agricultural labor housing subject to the following standards (SMA Only):

            a. The proposed housing is necessary and accessory to a current agricultural
               use as evidenced by the submittal of a Farm Management Plan, defined in
               Section 1.200, with the application;

            b. The housing shall be seasonal unless it is shown that an additional full-time
               dwelling is necessary to the current agricultural use of the subject farm or
               ranch unit. Seasonal use shall not exceed nine (9) months.

Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone                                             9   0 1 0 t 6 1 0
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                           Page 3-73

     c. The housing shall be located to minimize the conversion of lands capable of
        production of farm crops or livestock and will not force a significant change in
        or significantly increase the cost of accepted agricultural practices employed
        on nearby lands devoted to agricultural use.

     d. The operation is a commercial enterprise as determined by an evaluation of
        the following:

          (1) Size of the entire unit, including all land in the same ownership;

          (2) Type(s) of operation (crops, livestock) and acreage;

          (3) Operational requirements for the particular agricultural activity common to
              area agricultural operations; and

          (4) The farm or ranch, and all its constituent parcels, is capable of producing
              at least $40,000 in gross annual income. This determination can be made
              using the following formula:
              Average Yield Per Acre/Unit x Average Commodity/Unit Price x Total
              Acres for Production of Commodity/Units = Income Capability

     e.   There is an existing dwelling on the parcel and the parcel is at least 40 acres.
          (SMA only)

FARM/FOREST USE

6.   SMA Agricultural review uses only, as allowed for in Section 3.120, Large Scale
     Agricultural Zone, except D(7) - (Accessory Buildings),                  E(17)    -   (Public
     Recreation), and E(24) - (ODOT Disposal Sites). (SMA Only)

7. Agricultural structures,     except   buildings,   in conjunction   with   agricultural    use.
   (GMA    & SMA)

8. Agricultural_buildings in conjunction with current agricultural use and, if
   applicable, proposed agricultural use that a landowner would initiate within one
   year and complete within five years, subject to the standards in "Agricultural
   Buildings". (GMA & SMA)

     The size of proposed agricultural buildings shall not exceed the size needed to
     serve the current agricultural use and, if applicable, the proposed agricultural
     use. The applicants shall submit a floor plan showing intended uses of the
     agricultural building (e.g., space for equipment, supplies, agricultural products,
     livestock) as well as a Farm Management Plan defined in Section 1.200 with
     their land use application:

                                                      20100010                 Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone
                                                                                      XX, AXXK 2010
Page 3-74

    9.Fruits and produce stands, upon a showing that:              (SMA Only)

            a. Sales will be limited to agricultural products raised on the subject farm and
                other farms in the local region, and

            b. The stand complies with licensing requirements                   of the   Food     and      Dairy
               Division of the Oregon Department of Agriculture.

     10.Aqricultural_product       processing       and   packaging,     upon    demonstration       that the
            processing will be limited to products grown primarily on the subject farm and
            sized to the subject operation. "Primarily" means a clear majority of the product
            as measured by volume, weight, or value. (SMA Only)

     11.Silvicultural nurseries.     (SMA Only)

     12.Fish hatcheries and aquaculture.            (SMA Only)

     13.Forest uses and practices as allowed on lands designated SMA Forest in the
         Management Plan (Part Il, Chapter 2, SMA Guidelines), except SMA Forest
         Land review uses 1.1 (public and commercial recreation), 1. L (accessory
         buildings), 1.M (accessory buildings), and 1.V (disposal sites)). (SMA Only)

COMMERCIAL USE

     14.Commercial Events, subject to the Commercial Events standards as prescribed
        in Chapter 20. (GMA Only)

     15.Home_ occupations or cottage industry in existing residential or accessory
        structures subject to the Home Occupations and Cottage Industries standards
        prescribed in Chapter 20. (SMA Only)

    16.Bed and Breakfast Inns, may be permitted in a lawfully established single family
            dwelling subject to the Bed and Breakfast Inn standards prescribed in Chapter
            20 (SMA Only).

    17. Special Uses in Historic Buildings subject to Special Uses in Historic Buildings
        standards prescribed in Chapter 20 (GMA Only).

    PUBLIC & QUASI-PUBLIC USE

    18.Public nonprofit group        camps,       retreats, conference    or educational        centers,    and
            interpretive facilities. (SMA Only)

Chapter 3-"P-R" Zone                                        2 0 1 0 0) 0 1 0
XX, AKXX 2010
                                                                                                    Page 3-75

19.Community facilities and nonprofit               facilities   related    to agricultural      or forest
   resource management. (SMA Only)

20.Public_ recreation   facilities,    consistent     with the        provisions   of Section      14.710.
    (SMA Only)

21.Public Trails subject to Section 14.700 and 14.710.                (GMA & SMA)

MISCELLANEOUS USE

22.Additions to existing buildings greater than 200 square feet in area or greater
    than the height of the existing building. (GMA & SMA)

23.Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
   septic tanks and fuel tanks. (GMA & SMA)

24. Towers and fire stations for forest fire protection.           (SMA Only)

25.Docks and boathouses, subject to the standards below:                       (GMA & SMA)

   a.   New, private docks and boathouses serving only one family and one property
        shall be allowed, up to 120 square feet in size;

   b. New,    private   docks    and     boathouses         serving     more     than   one   family    and
        property shall be allowed, up to 200 square feet in size;

   c.   Public docks open and available for public use shall be allowed.

   d. Boathouses may be allowed under criteria a and b above only                                      when
      accessory to a dwelling and associated with a navigable river or lake.

26.Exploration, development, and production of sand, gravel, or crushed rock
    subject to that material being used only for the construction, maintenance, or
    reconstruction of roads used to manage or harvest commercial forest products
    on lands within the SMA (SMA Only)

27.Road and railroad construction and reconstruction.                   (SMA Only)

28.Temporary portable asphalt/batch plants related to public road projects, not to
   exceed six (6) months. (SMA Only)

29.Utility transmission, transportation, communications,                and public works facilities for
   public service provided that: (GMA & SMA)

                                                                 90106610                Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone
                                                                                                XX, XXXK 2010
Page 3-76

            a.     There is no alternative location with less adverse effect on Public Recreation
                   land; and

            b. The size is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

    30.Temporary portable facility for the primary processing of forest products grown
       upon a parcel of land or contiguous land in the same ownership where the facility
       is to be located. The facility shall be subject to the standards in Chapter 8,
       Temporary Use Permit, and be removed upon completion of the harvest
       operation. (SMA Only)

    31.Resource enhancement projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
       recreation and/or natural resources,    subject subject to the Resource
       Enhancement standards prescribed in Chapter 10: (GMA & SMA)

    32.Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed
       in H below, Section 21.100, and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21.
       (GMA Only)

    33.Property line adjustments and Replats subject to the property development
       standards listed in H below, Section 21.200, and. all other applicable provisions
        of Chapter 21. (GMA Only)

F. Prohibited Uses

    All other uses not listed.

G. Conditional Use Approval Standards (GMA Only)
   In addition to the general standards and conditions that may be attached to the
   approval of a conditional use as provided by Chapter 5 of this Ordinance, the following
   limitations shall apply to a conditional use permitted in subsection D of this Section:

    1. The proposed use will not interfere with existing or approved public recreation uses
       on the subject property or adjacent lands. Mitigative measures utilized to comply
            with    this   criterion   may   include   provision   of on-site   buffers   and   seasonal   or
            temporary closures during peak recreation use periods.

    2.      The proposed         use will not permanently commit the majority of the site to a non-
            recreational use and will not remove all potential future resource-based public
            recreation uses. Careful siting and design of structures and other improvements
            may be utilized to comply with this criterion.

                                                                           20106610
Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone
XX, KOO 2010
                                                                                                Page 3-77

H.   Property Development Standards

     1.   Property Size:

          a.     GMA: Land divisions may be allowed upon a demonstration that the proposed
                 land division is necessary to facilitate, enhance or otherwise improve
                 recreational uses on the site.

               . SMA: No land divisions are allowed unless the creation of a new parcel will
                 facilitate land acquisition by the federal government to achieve the policies
                 and guidelines of the Management Plan. The provisions of Chapter 14 are
                 not applicable.

     2.   General Setbacks - all structures other than approved          signs and fences shall
          comply with the following general setback standards:

           Front Yard                       25'
           Interior Side Yard               15°
           Exterior Side Yard               20°
           Rear Yard                        20°

     3.. Agricultural Setbacks - In addition to the general setback standards listed in
         criterion 2 above, all new buildings to be located on a parcel adjacent to lands
         that are designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are currently
         used for or are suitable for agricultural use, shall comply with the following
          setback standards:

               Adjacent Use               Open     or   Natural or Created}    8 foot      Berm     or
                                          Fenced         Vegetation Barrier|   Terrain Barrier
                Orchards                  250'          100'                   75
               Row crops/ vegetables      300'          100’                   75'
               Livestock       grazing,   100'          15°                    20'
               pasture, haying
               Grains                     200'          75'                    50’
               Berries, vineyards         150°          50°                    30'
               Other                      100'          50°                    30'

          a.    Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines. The
                berm shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured at 3 to 1
                slopes to look natural. Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shall be employed on
                the berm to control erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15) feet.

               . The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in
                 part, the setback guidelines. Trees shall be 6+ feet high when planted and

                                                        90100610
                                                                                     Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone
                                                                                            XX, AXXX 2010
Page 3-78

                 reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet.   The vegetation screen
                 shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be continuous.

            c. The necessary berming and/or planting must be completed during the first
               phase of development and maintained in good condition.

            d.   If several crops or crop rotation is involved    in the adjacent operation, the
                 greater setback shall apply.

            e. A variance to the setback requirements may be made             in accordance with
               Chapter 6.

    4.      Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five feet (35') unless
            further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

    5. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
       thirty (30) feet.

    6.      Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

Chapter 3-“P-R” Zone
                                                                 20100610
XX, XXKX 2010
                                                                                                  Page 3-79

SECTION 3.180           “OS” Open Space Zone (GMA & SMA)

A.   Purpose
     Protect those most significant, sensitive and representative, scenic, cultural, natural
     and recreation resources on unimproved lands from conflicting uses and enhance
     them where appropriate.

B.   Uses Permitted Without Review
     The following uses and activities may be allowed without review on lands designated
     Open Space subject to the applicable property development standards. (GMA &
     SMA)
     1.   Repair, maintenance and operation of existing structures, including, but not
          limited to, dwellings, agricultural structures, trails, roads, railroads, and utility
          facilities.

          The following transportation facilities:

          a.    Replace existing safety or protective structures, including guardrails, access
                control fences and gates, barriers, energy attenuators, safety cables, and
                traffic signals and controllers, as well as existing traffic detection devices,
                vehicle weighing devices, and signal boxes provided the replacement
                structures are:

                (1) The same location and size as the existing structures and

                (2) The same building materials as the existing structures, or building
                    materials that are dark brown with a flat, non-reflective finish, or building
                    materials consistent with the Historic Columbia River Highway Master
                    Plan for the Historic Columbia River Highway or the scenic highway
                    corridor strategy for interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies
                    in the section of the Scenic Resources chapter of the Management plan
                    title “Scenic Travel Corridors

               . New raised pavement markers, guide posts, object markers, inlay markers,
                 and pavement markings and striping.

            . Permanent       public   regulatory,   guide,   and   warning   signs,    except     those
                excluded below, provided:

                (1) The signs comply with the Manual for Uniform Traffic Control
                    Devices and

                                                               90100010
                                                                                       Chapter 3-“OS” Zone
                                                                                            XX, XXXX 2010
Page 3-80

               (2) The support structures and backs of all signs are dark brown with a flat,
                   non-reflective finish. This category does not include specific service signs;
                   destination and distance signs; variable message signs; or signs that
                   bridge or are cantilevered over the road surface.
            d. Extensions of existing guardrails less than or equal to 50 feet in length and
               new guardrail ends for existing guardrails, provided the guardrails and
               guardrail ends are

                 (1) Located inside rights-of-way that have been disturbed in the past; and

                 (2) Constructed   of materials that match the existing structure, natural wood,
                    weathering steel (e.g., Corten), or materials consistent with the Hisforic
                    Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the Historic Columbia River
                    Highway   or a scenic highway corridor strategy for Interstate 84 prepared
                    according to the GMA policies in the section of the Scenic Resources
                    chapter of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel Corridors.”

            e.   New guardrails and guardrail ends, provided the structures are

                 (1) Located inside rights-of-way that have been disturbed in the past and

                 (2) Constructed of natural wood, weathering steel (e.g., Corten), or materials
                     consistent with the Hisforic Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the
                     Historic Columbia River Highway or a scenic highway corridor strategy for
                     Interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies in the section of the
                     Scenic Resources chapter of the Management Plan titled “Scenic Travel
                     Corridors.” This category does not include jersey barriers.

            f.   Replace and/or expand existing culverts, provided the entity or person owning
                 or operating the culvert shall obtain all necessary federal and state permits
                 that protect water quality and fish and wildlife habitat before construction.
                 (GMA Only)

            g. Replace and/or expand existing culverts for ephemeral streams or ditches,
               provided the visible ends of culverts shall be dark and non-reflective. (SMA
                 Only)

            h. Resurface or overlay existing paved roads, or grade and gravel existing road
               shoulders provided the activity does not:

                 (1) Increase the width of a road,

                 (2) Disturb the toe of adjacent embankments, slopes or cut banks, or

Chapter 3-“OS” Zone
                                                                  20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                         Page 3-81

        (3) Change existing structures or add new structures.

   i.   Apply dust abatement products to non-paved road surfaces.

   j.   Replace the superstructure of bridges (e.g., decks, beams) for bridges less
        than or equal to 30 feet in length and less than or equal to 1,000 square feet
        in area. This category does not include guardrails or the substructure of
        bridges (e.g., foundations, abutments).

3. The following underground utility facilities:

   a.   Replace    or modify existing   underground   utility facilities located   inside road,
        utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements that have been disturbed in the
        past or co-locate new underground utility facilities with existing underground
        facilities located inside road, utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements that
        have been disturbed in the past, provided no excavation would extend
        beyond the depth and extent of the original excavation.

   b. Replace or modify existing underground          _utility facilities located inside road,
        utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements that have been disturbed in the
        past or co-locate new underground utility facilities with existing underground
        facilities located inside road, utility or railroad rights-of-way or easements that
        have been disturbed in the past, provided:

        (1) No excavation would extend more than 12 inches beyond the depth
            and extent of the original excavation;

        (2) No ditch for linear facilities would be more than 24 inches wide;

        (3) No excavation for non-linear facilities would exceed 10 cubic yards,
            and;

        (4)     No recorded archaeological site is located within 500 feet of the
              development. To comply with (4), the entity or person undertaking the
              development shall contact the Oregon State Historic Preservation Office
              and obtain a letter or other document stating no recorded archaeological
              site is located within 500 feet of the development.

4. The following aboveground and overhead utility facilities:

   a.   Replace existing aboveground and overhead utility facilities including towers,
        pole/tower-mounted equipment, cables and wires, anchors, pad-mounted
        equipment, service boxes, pumps, valves, pipes, water meters, and fire
        hydrants, provided the replacement facilities would have:

                                                   20100010                   Chapter 3-“OS” Zone
                                                                                    XX, XXXKX 2010
Page 3-82

                  (1) The same location and size as the existing facilities and;

                  (2) The same building materials as the existing facilities, or building materials
                      that are dark brown with a flat, non-reflective finish, or building materials
                      consistent with the Historic Columbia River Highway Master Plan for the
                      Historic Columbia River Highway or the scenic highway corridor strategy
                      for Interstate 84 prepared according to the GMA policies in the section of
                      the Scenic Resources chapter of the Management plan title “Scenic
                      Travel Corridors

                  Replace existing utility poles, provided the replacement poles are

                  (1) Located within 5 feet of the original poles;

                  (2) No more than 5 feet taller and 6 inches wider than the originai poles,
                     and;

                  (3) Constructed of natural wood, weathering steel (e.g., Corten), materials
                      that match the original poles, or materials that are dark brown with a flat,
                      non-reflective finish.

                  New whip antennas for public service less than or equal to 8-feet in height
                  and less than or equal to 2 inches in diameter, cables, wires, transformers,
                  and other similar equipment, provided all such structures are on existing utility
                  poles or towers.

      5.    The following signs:

                  Election signs. Removal must be accomplished within 30 days of
                  election day.

                  "For sale" signs not greater than 12 square feet.    Removal must be
                  accomplished within 30 days of close of sale.

            c.    Temporary construction site identification, public service company,        safety, or
                  information   signs   not greater than   32 square   feet.   Exceptions     may   be
                  granted for public highway signs necessary for public safety and consistent
                  with the Manual for Uniform Traffic Control! Devices.            Removal   must   be
                  accomplished within 30 days of project completion.

                  Signs posted on private property warning the public against trespassing,
                  danger from animals, the private nature of a road, driveway or premise, or
                  signs prohibiting or otherwise controlling fishing or hunting, provided such

Chapter 3-“OS” Zone                                                    3 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX,   XXXX 2010
                                                                                          Page 3-83

             signs are not greater than 6 square feet in the GMA and 2 square feet in the
             SMA.

        e. Temporary signs advertising civil, social, or political gatherings and activities,
           provided such signs do not exceed 12 square feet.              Removal must be
           accomplished within 30 days of the close of the event.

        f.   Signs posted by governmental jurisdictions giving notice to the public. Such
             signs shall be no larger than that required to convey the intended message.

        g. Signs associated with the use of a building or buildings, if placed flat on the
           outside walls of buildings (not on roofs or marquees). (GMA Only)

C.   Uses Permitted Subject To Expedited Review
     The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be allowed on a legal parcel
     designated Open Space subject to Expedited Review and Subsection G - Property
     Development Standards, as well as all other listed or referenced standards

D. Uses Permitted Subject to Review
   The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated Open
   Space subject to Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review, Subsection G - Property
   Development Standards, as well as any other listed or referenced standards.

     1. Low-intensity  recreation uses and developments (GMA & SMA), including
        educational and interpretive facilities (SMA Only) subject to Section 14.700 in the
        GMA and Section 14.710 in the SMA.

        Repair,    maintenance,   operation,   and_improvement_and_    expansion    of existing
        serviceable structures, including roads, railroads, hydro facilities and utilities that
        provide sewer, transportation, electric, gas, water, telephone, telegraph,
        telecommunications. (GMA Only)

        Changes in existing use, including reconstruction, replacement, and expansion of
        existing structures and transportation facilities, except for commercial forest
        practices. (SMA Only)

        Resource    enhancement     projects for the purpose   of enhancing   scenic,    cultural,
        recreation and/or natural resources, subject to subject to the                  Resource
        Enhancement standards prescribed in Chapter 10. (GMA & SMA)

        Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
        septic tanks and fuel tanks. (GMA & SMA)

        Land Divisions and Replats subject to the property development standards listed

                                                         20100010              Chapter 3-"OS” Zone
                                                                                     XX, XXXK 2010
Page 3-84

            in G below, Section 21.100, and all other applicable provisions of Chapter 21. In
            the GMA land division will only be allowed to facilitate efforts to protect and
            enhance scenic, cultural, natural, or recreation resources. (GMA & SMA)

    7.      Property line adjustments and Replats subject to the property development
            standards listed in G below, Section 21.200, and all other applicable provisions
            of Chapter 21. (GMA Only)

    8.      Utility facilities for public service, upon a showing that: (SMA Only)

            a. There is no alternative location with less adverse effect on Open Space land.

            b. The size is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

    9. Treatment of noxious weeds shall be permitted without completion of an SMA
            Open Space plan when the following criteria have been met:                      (SMA Only)

            a.   Noxious weed infestation is new and eradication is still viable.

            b.   Delayed or deferred treatment could have widespread                          or major   adverse
                 impacts to one or more of the following resources:                                         .

                 (1) Displacement of native and traditionally gathered plants;

                 (2) Degradation of wildlife habitat and forage;

                 (3) Degradation          or loss of agricultural       uses    of land, such   as cropland        or
                         livestock forage;

                 (4) Limitation of recreational uses.

            c.   For federal lands, treatment             effects   have   been    thoroughly   evaluated     in an
                 environmental assessment.

    40.For those areas designated Gorge Walls and Canyonlands - The following uses
        may be authorized: (GMA Only)

            a.   Livestock grazing;

            b.   Fish and wildlife management              activities conducted by federal, tribal or state
                 resource agencies;

            c.   Soil,     water    and      vegetation    activities   performed      in   accordance      with    a
                 conservation plan approved by a county conservation district;

Chapter 3-“OS” Zone                                                            99100610
XX, XXKX 2010
                                                                                        Page 3-85

   d.   Harvesting of wild crops;

   e.   Educational or scientific research;

   f.   Continued operation of existing quarries if determined to be consistent with
        guidelines to protect scenic, cultural, natural and recreation resources.

11.For those areas designated Chenoweth Table Natural Area - The following uses
    may be authorized: In addition to those above. (GMA Only)

   a.   Low-intensity recreation, subject to the guidelines for Recreation Intensity
        Classes and after consultation with the Oregon Natural Heritage Program;

   b. Wildlife management activities conducted by federal, tribal or state resource
      agencies, after consultation with the Oregon Natural Heritage Program;

   c.. Educational or scientific research, after consultation with the Oregon Natural
       Heritage Program.

12.For that area designated Squally Point Natural Area - The following uses may be
   authorized:   In addition to those above.    (GMA Only)

   a.   Except in the upland dunes south of the railroad, low-intensity recreation,
        subject to the guidelines for the Recreation Intensity Classes and after
        consultation with the Oregon Natural Heritage Program;

   b.   Repair and maintenance of railroads except measures to stabilize dunes, only
        after consultation with the Oregon Natural Heritage Program;

   c.   Except as limited by Criterion 12(a), all those uses allowed in Section D, Uses
        Permitted Subject to Review above.

13.For those areas designated State Park Recreation Areas - The following uses may
   be authorized    on those portions of state park ownerships        not suitable for major
   recreation facilities: In addition to those above.    (GMA Only)

   a.   Fish and wildlife management      activities conducted    by federal, tribal or state
        resource agencies;

   b. Soil, water or vegetation activities performed in accordance with a conservation
      plan approved by a local conservation district;

   c.   Harvesting of wild crops;

                                                        2 0 1 0 Cc 6 10      Chapter 3-“OS” Zone
                                                                                   XX, XOOKXK 2010
Page 3-86

            d.     Educational or scientific research.

E. Special Management Area - Open Space

     4. The primary managing agency for open space areas for the SMA shall prepare an
            open space management plan.             The management plan shail be completed prior to
            any new land uses or development, and shall be reviewed by the Forest Service.

     2. The open space management plan shall include the following:

            a.     Direction for resource protection, enhancement, and management.

            b. Review of existing uses to determine compatibility with open space values.

            c. Consultation with members of the public, and agency and resource specialists.

     3.     Upon      request, the Forest Service will help located mapped           boundaries of Open
            Space areas in cases of new land uses or developments.

F.   Prohibited Uses

     All other uses not listed.

G. Property Development Standards ,

     1.     Property Size:
            a. Inthe GMA there is no minimum property size.

            b. In the SMA land divisions are prohibited unless the creation of a new parcel
               will facilitate land acquisition by the federal government to achieve the
                   policies and guidelines of the Management           Plan.   The provisions of Chapter
                   14 are not applicable and there is no minimum parcel size.

     2.     General      Setbacks     - all structures   other than   approved   signs   and   fences   shall
            comply with the following general setback standards:

                 Front Yard                        25°
                 Interior Side Yard                15°
                 Exterior Side Yard                20’
                 Rear Yard                         20’

     3. Agricultural Setbacks - In addition to the general setback standards listed in
        criterion 2 above, all new buildings to be located on a parcel adjacent to lands
        that are designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture and are currently

Chapter 3-"OS” Zone
70%, 200K 2010                                                          20100010
                                                                                                 Page 3-87

     used for or are suitable for agricultural use,             shall comply with the following
     setback standards:                           ;

          Adjacent Use                  Open     or      Natural or Created|     8 foot Berm           or
                                        Fenced            Vegetation Barrier | _ Terrain Barrier
           Orchards                     250°             100!                    75'
          Row crops/ vegetables         300'             100°                    75
          Livestock         grazing,    100°             15°                     20'
          pasture, haying
          Grains                        200'             75°                     50'
          Berries, vineyards            150'             50°                     30'
          Other                         100°             50'                     30°

     a.    Earth berms may be used to satisfy, in part, the setback guidelines. The
           berm shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in height, and contoured at 3 to 1
           slopes to look natural. Shrubs, trees and/or grasses shall be employed on
           the berm to control erosion and achieve a finished height of fifteen (15) feet.

     b. The planting of a continuous vegetative screen may be used to satisfy, in
        part, the setback guidelines. Trees shall be 6+ feet high when planted and
        reach an ultimate height of at least fifteen (15) feet. The vegetation screen
        shall be planted along the appropriate lot/parcel line(s), and be continuous.

     c. The necessary berming and/or planting must be completed during the first
           phase of development and maintained in good condition.

     d.    If several crops or crop rotation is involved         in the adjacent operation, the
           greater setback shall apply.

     e. A variance to the setback requirements may                 be made     in accordance with
           Chapter 6.                                               .

4.   Height        - Maximum    height for all structures shall be thirty-five feet (35') unless
     further restricted in accordance with Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

5. Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum                          of
     thirty (30) feet.

6.   Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.

                                                      2 0 i 0 0 6 1 0                  Chapter 3-“OS” Zone
                                                                                            XX, XXXKX 2010
Page 3-88

Chapter 3-“OS” Zone   20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                        Page 3-89

SECTION 3.190       “AS” Agriculture Special Zone (GMA Only)

A.   Purpose:

     4.   Ensure that new uses do not adversely affect natural areas that are potentially
          eligible for the Oregon Register of Natural Heritage Resources.                ;

     2.   Encourage landowners to enhance those portions of natural areas that are in fair
          or poor condition.

B. Uses Permitted Without Review
   The following activities and uses may be allowed on lands designated Agriculture-
   Special without review:

     1.   Existing livestock grazing. A livestock operation ceases to be existing when the
          land on which it is conducted has lain idle for more than 5 years.

     2.   Repair, maintenance, and operation of existing and serviceable structures, trails,
          roads, railroads and utility facilities.

     3.   Low-intensity recreation uses that occur with the knowledge and permission of the
          landowner, including hunting, fishing, trapping, native plant study, bird watching,
          photography, horseback riding and hiking.

     4. Temporary livestock facilities, such as portable livestock pens and corrals.

     5.   New fences that exclude livestock from lands that are not part of an existing
          livestock operation.

C. Uses Permitted Subject To Expedited Review
   The uses and activities listed in Section 3.110 may be allowed on a legal parcel
   designated Agriculture Special subject to Expedited Review and Subsections H -
   Property Development Standards and Chapter 11 - Fire Protection Standards, as
   well as all other listed or referenced standards.

D. Uses Permitted Conditionally
   The following uses and activities may be allowed on a legal parcel designated
   Agriculturat-Special subject to Chapter 5 - Conditional Use Review, Chapter 14 -
   Scenic Area Review, and Subsection D, Conditional Use Approval Standards, as
   well as any other listed or referenced standards.

     1.   New livestock grazing. Any operation that would introduce livestock to land that
          has not been grazed, or has lain idle, for more than 5 years shall be considered
          new livestock grazing.

                                                    20 i 0 0 6 10             Chapter 3-"AS” Zone
                                                                                   XX, OOO 2010
Page 3-90

    2.      New fences, livestock watering facilities, and corrals.

    3.      Soil, water, and vegetation conservation uses.

    4.      Replacement          or minor expansion      of existing and serviceable structures within a
            dedicated site. Expansion shall be limited to the dedicated site.

    5.      Fish and wildlife management uses, educational activities, and scientific research.

     6.     Land     divisions    that facilitate   livestock   grazing   or protect   and   enhance    natural
            areas.    No resulting parcel may be smaller than 160 acres, unless it would facilitate
            the protection of scenic, cultural, natural or recreation resources.

     7.     Single family dwellings that are not in conjunction with agricultural use, if a land
            owner demonstrates that:

            a. The dwelling cannot be constructed on a portion of the parcel that is located
               outside of the natural area, and

            b. The dwelling is sited and             designed     in a manner that minimizes           adverse
               effects to the natural area.

            c. All dwellings shall meet the following standards:

                (1) The dwelling will not force a change in or increase the cost of accepted
                    agricultural practices on surrounding lands;

                (2) The subject lot/parcel! is predominantly unsuitable for the production of farm
                    crops and livestock, considering soils, terrain, location and size of the tract.
                    Size alone shall not be used to determine whether a lot/parcel is unsuitable
                    for agricultural use. An analysis of suitability shall include the capability of
                    the subject lot/parcel to be utilized in conjunction with other agricultural
                    operations in the area;

                (3) The dwelling shall be setback from any abutting      ' parcel designated as
                    Agriculture as required in the setback standards  listed   in 3.120(G), Large
                    Scale Agriculture Zone. The dwelling shall be setback from any abutting
                    parcel designated Forest as required setback standards in 3.140(G)
                    Property Development Standards for the Industrial Forest zone.

                (4) A declaration has been signed by the landowner and recorded into county
                    deeds and records specifying that the owners, successors, heirs and
                    assigns of the subject property are aware that adjacent and nearby

Chapter 3-“A-S” Zone                                                           90 10¢ 61 0
XX, YOK 2010
                                                                                            Page 3-91

               operators are entitled to carry on accepted agriculture or forest practices on
               lands designated Agriculture or Forest;

           (5) All owners of land. in areas designated Agriculture or Forest within five
               hundred (500) feet of the perimeter of the subject lot/parcel on which the
               dwelling is proposed to be located have been notified and given at least ten
               (10) days to comment prior to a decision;

           (6) The County Assessor has been notified that the parcel is no longer being
               used as farmland; and

           (7) Request has been made to the County Assessor to disqualify the parcel for
               special assessment under ORS 308A.315, or 321.839;

           (8) The lot or parcel on which the dwelling will be located has been legally
               created.

        d. The buffer standards for dwellings may be varied according to Chapter 6, if
           the standards prevent the optimum siting of a dwelling for scenic, cultural,
           natural or recreational resources.

   8.   Recreation uses, subject to Section 14.510.

   9.   Additions to existing buildings greater than      200 square feet in area or greater
        than the height of the existing building.

   10.Resource enhancement projects for the purpose of enhancing scenic, cultural,
      recreation and/or natural resources, subject to Section 10.100 (Resource
      Enhancement Projects). These projects may include new structures (e.g., fish
      ladders, sediment barriers) and/or activities (e.g., closing and revegetating
        unused roads, recontouring abandoned quarries).

   11.Removal/demolition of structures that are 50 or more years old, including wells,
        septic tanks and fuel tanks.

   12.Property line       adjustments,   subject    to   Section   21.200   —   (Property      Line
      Adjustments).

D. Conditional Use Approval Standards
   In addition to the general standards and conditions that may be attached to the
   approval of a conditional use as provided by Chapter 5 of this Ordinance, the
   following limitations shall apply to a conditional use permitted in Subsection C of this
   Section:

                                                          20100010              Chapter 3-“AS” Zone
                                                                                      XX, 000 2010
Page 3-92

     1. A range conservation pian is prepared in accordance with Subsection F, Range
            Conservation     Plans    before   new    livestock     grazing   commences;     new   fences,
            livestock watering facilities, and corrals are constructed; and soil, water and
            vegetation conservation activities are undertaken (Conditional Uses (C)(1),(2) and
            (3)). Range conservation plans are described below (see Subsection F, Range
            Conservation Plans).

            The County shall submit all land use applications and range conservation plans to
            the Oregon Natural Heritage Program.

            a. The state heritage program will have 20 days from the date that an
               application and/or plan is mailed to submit written comments to the County
               Planning Office.

            b. The County shall record and address any written comments submitted by the
               state heritage program in its development review order.

            Based on the comments from the state heritage program, the County shall make a
            final decision on whether the proposed use is consistent with the Agriculture-
            Special standards. If the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the
            state heritage program, the County shall justify how it reached an opposing
            conclusion.

E.   Prohibited Uses:
     Except for permitted and conditional uses, new uses shall be prohibited on lands
     designated Agriculture-Special.           Prohibited uses include, but are not limited to:

     1. Cultivation, including plowing, harrowing, leveling, tilling, or any activity                  that
        prepares land for raising crops by turning, breaking up, or loosening the soil.

            Removal or clearing of native grasses, shrubs, and trees.

            Single family dwellings and accessory             structures,     other than   non-agricultural
            dwellings allowed as a conditional use.

            Barns, silos, and other agricultural buildings.

            Irrigation systems.

            Exploration, development, and production of mineral resources.

            Utility facilities, public use facilities, and roads.

                                                                         201000610
Chapter 3-"A-S” Zone
XX, XXX 2010
                                                                                         Page 3-93

F. Range Conservation Plans
   If a range conservation plan is required as per subsection D of this section, before a
   use is allowed, the range conservation plan shall be prepared by landowners in
   cooperation with range scientists from local conservation districts. Specialists from
   the Oregon Natural Heritage Program should be consulted while the plan is being
   prepared.

   1.   Range conservation plans shall ensure that new uses do not adversely affect
        natural areas. They shall accomplish the following goals:

           Maintain native rangeland that is in excellent or good        condition; enhance
           rangeland that is in fair or poor condition.

           Preserve native trees and shrubs.

           Re-establish    native grasses in degraded    areas that have been invaded by
           non-native plants and weeds.

        Range conservation plans shall include the following elements:

           Range   Inventory.    Existing composition, carrying capacity, and condition of
           rangeland; the location of rare plants and non-native        weeds;   and    existing
           fences, watering ponds, and other range improvements.

           Rehabilitation Plan. Actions that will be taken to rehabilitate native rangeland
           that is in fair or poor condition, such as weed and soil erosion control,
           seeding, and prescribed burning.

           Livestock Management Plan. Grazing system that will be used, including
           number     and   size   of pastures,    expected   livestock    numbers,     and
           grazing/deferral periods and sequence.      Management    plans  should  project
           livestock movements for at least three years.

         . Monitoring     Program.   Track annual   progress   of the conservation     plan and
           condition of the range.     Monitoring techniques shall be described, such as
           line transects or photographic plots.

                                                         20100010                xc zero
Chapter 3-“A-S” Zone
                       20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                       Page 3-95

SECTION 3.200     Environmental Protection Districts

The purpose of the Environmental Protection District is to permit the regulation of
environmental hazards, the qualification of lands for floodplain insurance programs and
preferential taxation assessment, and the protection of the health, safety and welfare of
residents of Wasco County. The specific intent of this district is:

A. To combine with present zoning requirements certain restrictions to promote              the
   general health, welfare, and safety of the County.

   To prevent the establishment of certain structures and land uses in areas unfit for
   human habitation because of the danger of flooding, unsanitary conditions, mass
   earth movement, unstable soils, or other hazards.

   To minimize danger to public health by protecting the water supply and promoting safe
   and sanitary drainage.

   To reduce the financial burden      imposed   on the public and governmental      units by
   frequent and periodic flooding.

   To permit certain uses which can be located on flood plains and which will not impede
   the flow of flood waters, or otherwise cause danger to life and property at, above, or
   below their locations within the flood plain.

   To permit uses on lands subject to mass earth movement or unstable soils which will
   not increase the potential for environmental degradation.

  . To require that uses vulnerable to hazards, including public facilities which serve such
   uses be provided with protection at the time of initial construction.

   To protect individuals, as much as possible through education and information from
   buying lands which are unsuited for intended purposes.

SECTION 3.210     Divisions

This district consists of several overlay divisions that provide additional development
standards or special processes for development in protected areas.

A. Division 1 - Flood hazard overlay

B. Division 2 - Geologic hazards overlay

                                                                                Chapter 3-EPD’s
                                                      9090100010                January 10, 2006
Page 3-96

SECTION 3.230      Non-Liability Clause

The granting of approval of any structure or use shall not constitute a representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind or nature by Wasco County, or the County Court, the
Planning Commission, or by any officer or employee thereof, of the practicability or safety
of any structure or use proposed and shall create no liability upon or cause action against
such public body, officer or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.

Chapter 3-EPD’s
                                                     20100010
January 10, 2006
SECTION 3.240     Division 1 - Flood Hazard Overiay

All uses and activities and their accessory buildings and uses allowed either outright or
conditionally in the underlying zone shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 22 "Flood
Damage Prevention" of this Ordinance.

                                               20100610             Chapter 3-Flood Hazard Overlay
                                                                                   January 10, 2006
Chapter 3-Flood Hazard Overlay   2 Cc 1 0 C ¢ 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                                          Page 3-99

SECTION 3.250         Division 2 - Geologic Hazards Overlay

The purpose of the Geologic Hazards Overlay District is to protect the public health,
safety and welfare by assuring that development in hazardous or potential hazardous
areas is appropriately planned to mitigate the threat to man's life and property.

A.   Basis for Establishing the Geologic Hazards Overlay District

     The Geologic Hazards Overlay District is intended to be applied to areas identified by
     the State of Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries, Geologic Hazards
     of Parts of Northern Hood River, Wasco and Sherman Counties, Oregon, 1977. A
     complete explanation and maps showing the natural hazards and geologic units can
     be found in this document; however, this document may be superseded by a more
     site specific study conducted by a licensed engineer or geologist registered in the
     State of Oregon.

B. Approval Standards

     Prior to development, the following measures shall be utilized:

     4. Any proposed developments on slopes greater than twenty-five percent (25%)
        shall be reviewed to ensure site suitability. Such review shall be conducted in the
        process for building permit approval and, unless the site has been identified as a
        geologic hazard area, shall rely on provisions of the Uniform Building Code for the
        protection of the public health, safety and welfare.

     2. Any      proposed    development        in an   identified    geologic      hazard     area     shall   be
           preceded   by a written     report   by an   engineering     geologist or an         engineer who
           certifies he is qualified to evaluate soils for suitability. For purposes of this section,
           development shall include any excavation or change in topography, such as home
           construction, associated roads, driveways, septic tank disposal fields, wells and
           water tanks.     The   written   report of the engineering       geologist or engineer shail
            certify that the development proposed may be completed without threat to public
            safety or welfare and shall be used in ministerially reviewing the development
          _ proposal.

     3.    In approval of a development permit, whether ministerial or through the
           Administrative Action procedures of Chapter 2 of this Ordinance, the following
           conditions may be imposed at the time of approval to ensure site and area
           stability:

           a. Maintain vegetation and eliminate widespread destruction of vegetation.

           b. Carefully design new roads and buildings with respect to:

                                                        2 0 i 0 C 6 q            Chapter 3-Geologic Hazards Overlay
                                                                                                   January 10, 2006
Page 3-100
z

              (1) placement of roads and structures on the surface topography.

              (2) surface drainage on and around the site.

              (3) drainage from buildings and road surfaces.

              (4) placement of septic tank disposai fields.

         c.   Careful construction of roads and buildings.

              (1} avoid cutting toeslopes of slump blocks.

              (2) careful grading    around   the site, especially avoiding   over-steepened   cut
                   banks.

              (3) re-vegetating disturbed areas as soon as possible.

         d. Other conditions may be imposed to reasonably assure that the development
            is protected from damage by mass movement.

Chapter 3-Geologic Hazards Overlay                      9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
January 10, 2006
              DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

          CHAPTER 4 SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

SECTION                                                            PAGE
4.010     MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE                                4-1
4.020     PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS                                   1
4.030     VISION CLEARIANCE                                        4A
4.040     OFF-STREET PARKING                                       4-2
4.050     BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS                             4-4
4.060     PUBLIC PARKING AREA                                      4-5
4.070     OFF-STREET LOADING                                       4-5
4.080     GENERAL PROVISIONS-OFF-STREET PARKING                    4-6
          AND LOADING
4.090     THROUGH LOTS                                             4-7
4.100     EXTERIOR FINISHING OF MOBILE HOMES                       4-7
4.110     ACCESSORY BUILDINGS SERVING AS GUEST                     4-7
          HOUSES
4.120     TRAFFIC IMPACT ANALYSIS     _                            4-8

                     20100010
                                           Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                                        Page 4-1

                        CHAPTER 4       SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

SECTION 4.010        Maintenance of Open Space

No lot area, yard, or other open space existing on or after the effective date of this
Ordinance shall be reduced below the minimum required for it by this Ordinance, and no
lot area, yard, off-street parking and loading area or other open space which is required
by this Ordinance for one use shail be used as the required lot area, yard or other open
space for another use. This section does not apply to area requirements reduced below
the minimum as a result of the creation of cemetery lots. Any required yard shall not
include any land dedicated, reserved or set aside for road, highway, street or other public
purposes except as provided in this Ordinance.

SECTION 4.020        Projections Into Yards

Every part of a required yard shall be open from the ground to the sky unobstructed
except for the following:

A. Accessory buildings where permitted.

B. Ordinary building projections such as cornices, eaves, belt courses, sills or similar
   architectural features may project into required side yards not more than eighteen (18)
   inches or into front and rear yards not more than twenty-four (24) inches.

C. Chimneys may project into any required yard not more than eighteen (18) inches.

D. Uncovered balconies or fire escapes may project into any required yard not more than
   three (3) feet.

E. Uncovered terraces, decks or platforms may project or extend into a required setback
   not more than five (5) feet. Such terraces, decks or platforms including guardrails or
   fencing shall not extend thirty (30) inches above grade or ground level.

SECTION 4.030        Vision Clearance

A vision clearance area shall be maintained on the corners                       of all property       at the
intersection of two streets or a street and a railroad.

A. A vision clearance area shall consist of a triangular area, two sides of which are lot
   lines measured from the corner intersection of the street lot lines for a distance
   specified in the appropriate zone, or, where the lot lines have rounded corners, the lot

                                              9   0   1   0   0   0   1   0   Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
Page 4-2

      lines extended in a straight line to a point of intersection and so measured, and the
      third side of which is a line across the corner of the lot joining the non-intersecting
      ends of the other two sides.

B. A vision clearance area shall contain no planting, fence,                          wall, structure, or temporary
      or permanent obstruction exceeding two and one-half (2 1/2) feet in height, measured
      from the top of the curb or, where no curb exists, from the established street center
      line grade, except that trees exceeding this height may be located in this area
      removed to a height of eight (8) feet above the grade.

C. The following measurements shail establish vision areas:

      4.        In.an agricultural or residential zone, the minimum distance shall be thirty (30) feet,
                or, at intersections including an alley, ten (10) feet.

      2.        In all other zones where yards are required, the minimum distance shall be fifteen
                (15) feet or, at intersections including alley, ten (10) feet, except that when the
                angle of intersection between streets, other than an alley, is less than thirty (30)
                degrees, the distance shall be twenty-five (25) feet.

SECTION 4.040              Off-Street Parking

At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of enlargement or change in use
of an existing structure, off-street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with this
Section.           In an existing use, the parking space shall not be eliminated if elimination would
result in less space than is required by this Section. Where square feet are specified the
area measured shall be the gross floor area necessary to the functioning of the particular
use of the property but shall exclude space devoted to off-street parking or loading.
Where employees are specified, persons counted shall be those working on the premises
during the largest shift at peak season, including proprietors.

The following are the uses and minimum standards provided for off-street parking unless
specified otherwise:

A. Residential

      1.        Single-family dwelling: One (1) space per dwelling unit.

      2.        Residential hotel, rooming or boarding house:             Four (4) spaces per five (5) guest
                accommodations, plus one (1) space per two (2) employees.

      3. Two family or multi-family dwellings: Three (3) spaces per two (2) dwelling units.

  =        id    =          rovisions                         9   0   1   0   0   0   1   0
                                                                                                 Page 4-3

B. Commercial

          Motel:     One (1) space per guest room plus one (1) space for owner or manager.

          Club or Lodge: One (1) space per five (5) seats, or one (1) space for each fifty
          (50) square feet of floor area used for assembly, whichever is greater.

          Retail store except as provided in subsection (2): One (1) space per two hundred
          (200) square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

          Service or repair shop, retail store handling exclusively in bulk merchandise such
          as automobiles and fumiture: One (1) space per six hundred (600) square feet of
          floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

     5.   Bank, office (except medical and dental): One (1) space per six hundred (600)
          square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per employee.

     6.   Medical and dental clinic: One (1) space per three hundred (300) square feet of
          floor area plus one (1) space for every four (4) seats.

     7. Eating and drinking establishment:       One (1) space per two hundred (200) square
          feet of floor area, plus one (1) space for every four seats.

     8.   Mortuaries:     One (1) space per four (4) seats or every (8) feet of bench length in
          chapels.

C. Institutional

     4. Welfare or correctional institutions: One (1) space per five (5) beds for patients or
        inmates, plus one (1) space per employee.

     2.   Convalescent hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, rest home for the aged:             One (1)
          space per five (5) beds for patients or residents, plus one (1) space per employee.

     3.   Hospital: Three (3) spaces per two (2) beds.

D.   Places of Public Assembly

     1. Church:    One (1) space for four (4) seats or every eight (8) feet of bench length in
          the main auditorium.

     2. Library, reading room, museum, art gallery: One (1) space per four hundred (400)
          square feet of floor area plus one (1) space per two employees.

                                                    b) 0 1 0 0 0 10      Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
Page 4-4

    3.     Pre-school, nursery, kindergarten:              Two   (2) spaces    per teacher; plus off-street
           loading and unloading facility.

    4.     Elementary or junior high school: One (1) space per classroom plus one (1) space
           per administrative employee or one (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight (8)
           feet of bench length in the main auditorium, whichever is greater.

    5.     High School:    One (1) space per classroom plus one (1) space per administrative
           employee plus one (1) space for each six (6) students or one (1) space per four (4)
           seats or eight (8) feet of bench length in the main auditorium, whichever is greater.

    6.     Other auditorium, meeting room:               One (1) space per four (4) seats or every eight
           (8) feet of bench length.

SECTION 4.050 BICYCLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS
At the time of erection of a new structure or at the time of enlargement or change in use
of an existing structure, bicycle parking shall be provided in accordance with the
following standards:                                :

A. Number of Bicycle Parking Spaces - A minimum of two (2) bicycle parking spaces
     per use     is required       for all uses   with     greater than   10   permanent   vehicle   parking
    spaces.      The following additional standards apply to specific types of development:

     4.    Recreational Uses and Parks - Where the proposed use is recreational, bicycle
           parking shall be provided one (1) bicycle parking space for every 10 motor
           vehicle spaces.   Fifty percent (50%) of the bicycle parking spaces shall be
           sheltered under an eave, overhang, independent structure, or similar cover.

     2.    Schools - Schools, both private and public, shall provide one (1) bicycle parking
           space for every 10 students and employees.                All spaces shall be sheltered under
           an eave, overhang, independent structure, or similar cover.

     Exemptions - This Section does not apply to single family dwellings, home
     occupations, agriculture and livestock uses, or other developments with fewer than
     10 permanent vehicle parking spaces.

    Location and Design - Bicycle parking shall be conveniently located with respect to
    both the road right-of-way and at least one building entrance (e.g., no farther away
    than the closest parking space). It should be incorporated whenever possible into
    building design and coordinated with the design of street furniture when it is
    provided.    Street furniture includes benches, street lights, planters and other
    pedestrian amenities.

a          —          Provisions                                    9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
                                                                                             Page 4-5

   Visibility and Security - Bicycle parking shall be visible to cyclists from roadway
   sidewalks or building entrances, so that it provides sufficient security from theft and
   damage;

   Options for Storage - Bicycle parking requirements for long-term and employee
   parking can be met by providing a bicycle storage room, bicycle lockers, racks, or
   other secure storage space inside or outside of the building;

   Lighting - Bicycle parking shall be least as well lit as vehicle parking for security.

   Reserved Areas - Areas set aside for bicycle parking shall be clearly marked and
   reserved for bicycle parking only.

   Hazards - Bicycle parking shall not impede or create a hazard to pedestrians.
   Parking areas shall be located to avoid conflict with vision clearance standards
   (Section 4.090 Vision Clearance).

SECTION 4.060     Public Parking Area

Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public parking area or an automobile or trailer
sales area shall be developed as follows unless otherwise specified:

A. Such areas shall be surfaced with permanent paving; they shall have bumper rails or
   curbs and be enclosed by a sturdy wall, fence or evergreen hedge not less than thirty
   (30) inches in height nor more than six (6) feet in height. Such wall, fence or hedge
   shall not enclose any required front yard or required side yard on the street side of a
   comer lot. Any such required front or side yard shall be properly maintained.

   Where a public parking area or automobile or trailer sales area is illuminated, the
   lights shall be fixed so as to reflect away from adjoining premises in residential zones.

SECTION 4.070     Off-Street Loading

A. Schools: A driveway designed for continuous forward flow of passenger vehicles for
   the purpose of loading and unloading children shall be located on the site of any
   school having a capacity greater than twenty-five (25) students.

   Merchandise, materials or supplies: Buildings or structures to be built or substantially
   altered to receive and distribute materials or merchandise by truck shall provide and
   maintain off-street loading berths in sufficient numbers and size to adequately handle
   the needs of the particular use. If loading space has been provided in connection with
   an existing use or is added to an existing use, the loading space shail not be

                                            20100010                Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
Page 4-6

    eliminated if elimination would result in less space than is required to adequately
    handle the needs of the particular use. Off-street parking areas used to fulfill the
    requirements of this Ordinance shall not be used for loading and unloading operations
    except during periods of the day when not required to take care of parking needs.

SECTION 4.080           General Provisions--Off-Street Parking and Loading

A. The provisions and maintenance of off-street parking and loading spaces are
   continuing obligations of the property owner. No building permit shall be issued until
   plans are presented that show property that is and will remain available for exclusive
    use of off-street parking and loading space.      The subsequent use of property for which
    the building permit is issued shall be conditional upon the unqualified continuance and
    availability of the amount of parking and loading space required by this Ordinance.
    Should the owner or occupant of a lot or building change the use to which the lot or
    building is put, thereby increasing off-street parking or loading requirements, it shall be
    unlawful and a violation of this Ordinance to begin or maintain such altered use until
    the required increase in off-street parking or loading is provided.

    Requirements for types of buildings and uses not specifically listed herein shall be
    determined by the Director of Planning based upon the requirements of comparable
    uses listed herein.

    In the event several uses occupy a single structure or parcel of land, the total
    requirements for off-street parking shall be the sum of the requirements of the several
    uses computed separately.

    Owners of two or more uses, structures or parcels of land may agree to utilize jointly
    the same parking and loading spaces when the hours of operation do not overiap.

    Off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same or abutting lot with the building
    or use they are intended to serve.

    Required parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable passenger
    automobiles of residents, customers, patrons and employees only, and shall not be
    used for storage of vehicles or materials or for the parking of trucks used in
    conducting the business or use.

    Plans      shall   be submitted   in sufficient detail so that they may    be   reviewed   and
    approved by the appropriate reviewing authority.

  . Design requirements for parking lots:

    1. Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall have a durable and

a          —           Provisions                             9   0 1   0 0 0 1 0
                                                                                             Page 4-7

        dustless, but not necessarily paved, surface maintained adequately for all weather
        use.

   2.   Except for parking to serve residential uses, parking and loading areas adjacent to
        or within residential zones or adjacent to residential uses shall be designed to
        minimize disturbance of residents.

   3. Access aisles shall be of sufficient width for all vehicle tuming and maneuvering.

   4.   Groups of more than four (4) parking spaces shall be served by a driveway so that
        no backing movement or other maneuvering will be required within a street.

   5.   Lighting of the parking area shall be deflected from a residential zone.

   Required parking spaces shall be improved and available for use by the time the use
   to be served by the parking space is ready for occupancy.

SECTION 4.090      Through Lots

A. On through lots one hundred fifty (150) feet or less in depth, the height of a building
   may be that permitted on either street on which the lot faces.

   On through lots more than one hundred fifty (150) feet in depth, the height regulations
   for the greater height shall not extend more than one hundred fifty (150) feet from that
   street.

   Through lots having a frontage on two streets shall provide the required front yard on
   each street.

SECTION 4.100      Exterior Finishing of Mobile Homes

A. All mobile homes located on any lot or parcel in Wasco County shall be skirted with
   fire-proof, non-decaying and non-corroding materials or shall be provided with a
   cement or concrete block exterior foundation. If metal skirting is employed, it shall be
   painted and formed in a pattern complementary to the siding of the mobile home.

   All awnings carports, ramadas, cabanas, and garages shall be painted and designed
   in a style complementary to the design of the mobile home.

   Wheels shall be removed from all mobile homes at the time of installation on property.
   In addition, tongues, and hitches shall be removed from all mobile homes wider than
   ten (10) feet that are installed on any parcel of land, exclusive of licensed mobile

                                             90100010               Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                       Te
Page 4-8

     home parks. The Director of Planning may exempt certain mobile homes from the last
     requirement when removal would damage the frame and weaken the structure.

SECTION 4.110        Accessory Buildings Serving as Guest Houses

Any accessory building built to function as a guest house for use in a manner subordinate
and incidental to the main use may be allowed on a lot-of-record on which a primary
dwelling is situated, subject to the setback requirements of the underlying district, and the
provisions of this section;

A.. Only one (1) guest house shail be allowed on a lot-of-record.

B. The     maximum     floor area of a guest house,   including all levels and basement   floor
     areas shall not exceed six hundred (600) square feet. Garage area shall not count
     toward the total floor area. In addition to the six hundred (600) square foot size
     limitation, guest houses shall also be subject to the height limitations and the
     combined footprint size limitation established for accessory buildings in each zone.

C. A guest house shall be located within one hundred (100) feet of the primary dwelling
   on the subject lot-of-record. This distance shall be measured from the closest portion
   of each structure.

D. Occupants of a guest house and the primary dwelling shail live together as one house
   keeping unit, sharing one kitchen and one laundry facility, to be located in the primary
   dwelling. A guest house shall be permitted one (1) bathroom, but not a refrigerator or
   freezer, range/stove/oven, or other cooking appliances.

E. All public water, electricity, natural gas and sewer services for the guest house shall
     be extended     from the primary dwelling service.   No separate   meters for the guest
     house shall be allowed.      A separate telephone     line for the guest house may be
     provided.

F. A guest house shall use the same septic system as the primary dwelling.          Approvai
   from the County Sanitarian shall be required.

G. The property owners shall sign and record a covenant letting future property owners
   know the guest house cannot be used as a single family dwelling.

SECTION 4.120        Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA).

A.    Purpose - The purpose of this section of the code is to implement Section 660-
     012-0045 (2) (e) of the State Transportation Planning Rule that requires the County
     to adopt a process to apply conditions to development proposals in order to
     minimize adverse impacts to and protect transportation facilities. This section

a          —         Provisions                               2 0 1 0 0 C 1 0
                                                                                             Page 4-9

 establishes the standards for when a proposal must be reviewed for potential traffic
 impacts; when a Traffic impact Analysis must be submitted with a development
 application in order to determine whether conditions are needed to minimize
 impacts to and protect transportation facilities; what must be in a Traffic Impact
 Analysis; and who is qualified to prepare the Study.

. Typical Average Daily Trips - The latest edition of the Trip Generation Report,
  published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE), or a source deemed
  acceptable to the City Engineer through the pre-application process (Section
  4.140(D)(.3)) shall be used to gauge the trip generation potential. of future
  development.                       ;

. When Required - A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be required to be submitted to the
  County with a land use application when the following conditions apply:

  1.    The development application involves one or more of the following actions:

       a.   A change    in zoning   or a management         plan amendment     initiated at the
            county level; or

       b.   Any proposed development or land use action that ODOT states may result
            in operational or safety concerns along a state highway; and

       c.   The development     shall cause one or more of the following effects, which
            can be determined by field counts, site observation, traffic impact analysis
            or study, field measurements, crash history, Institute of Transportation
            Engineers Trip Generation manual; and information and studies provided
            by the local reviewing jurisdiction and/or ODOT:

            (1) An increase in site traffic volume generation by 200 Average Daily Trips
               (ADT) or more (or as required by the Wasco County Roadmaster); or

            (2) An increase in intersection traffic volume by 50 Average Daily Trips
                (ADT) or more (or as required by the Wasco County Roadmaster); or

            (3) An increase in use of adjacent roads by vehicles exceeding the 20,000
                pound gross vehicle weights by 10 vehicles or more per day; or

            (4) The location of the access driveway does not meet minimum intersection
                 sight distance requirements, or is located where vehicles entering or
                 leaving the property are restricted, or such vehicles queue or hesitate on
               _ the adjacent roadway, creating a safety hazard; or

            (5) The location of the access driveway does not meet the access spacing

                                          2   0 1   6 0 0   1 0     Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
                                                                                       |
Page 4-10

                       standard of the roadway on which the driveway is located; or

                 (6) A change              in internal traffic patterns that may cause     safety problems,
                       such     as back        up onto the roadway    or traffic crashes    in the approach
                       area.

D.   Traffic Impact Analysis Requirements

     4.     Preparation - A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be prepared by a professional
            engineer. The traffic analysis will be paid for by the applicant.

     2.     Transportation Planning Rule Compliance - See Section 9.059 Transportation
            Planning Rule Compliance.

     3.      Pre-application Conference - The applicant will meet with the County
            Roadmaster prior to submitting an application that requires a Traffic Impact
            Analysis. ODOT will be invited to participate in the pre-application conference if
            a proposal is expected to have impacts to a state transportation facility. The
            objective of this meeting is to prepare a scope of the TIA, including the required
            elements of the TIA and the level of analysis expected.

 E. Approval Criteria

     1. Criteria - When a Traffic impact Analysis is required, approval                               of   the
        development proposal requires satisfaction of the following criteria:

            a. The Traffic Impact Analysis was prepared                    by a registered       professional
               engineer in the State or Oregon; and

            b.   If the proposed development shall cause one or more of the effects in
                 Section C(1)(c), above, or other traffic hazard or negative impact to a
                 transportation facility, the Traffic Impact Analysis includes mitigation
                 measures that meet County's volume-to-capacity ratio of 0.85 and
                 satisfactory to the County Road Master, and ODOT when applicable; and

            c. The proposed site design and traffic and circulation design and facilities, for
               all transportation modes, including any mitigation measures, are designed
                 to:

                 (1) Have the least negative impact on all applicable transportation facilities;
                     and                                             .

                 (2) Accommodate                and   encourage    non-motorized     vehicular    modes     of
                       transportation to the extent practicable; and

 —        —                   Provisions                                        2   0 1   0 0 ¢ 1 0
                                                                                             Page 4-11

             (3) Make the most efficient use of land and public facilities as practicable;
                 and

             (4) Provide the most direct, safe and convenient routes practicable between
                on-site destinations, and between on-site and off-site destinations; and

             (5) Otherwise   comply with applicable   requirements    of the Wasco          County
                 Land Development Ordinance.

F.    Conditions of Approval. The County may deny, approve, or approve the proposal
     with appropriate conditions.

     1.   Dedication of land for streets/roadways, transit facilities, sidewalks, bikeways,
          paths, or accessways shall be required where the existing transportation system
          will be impacted by or is inadequate to handle the additional burden caused by
          the proposed use.

          Improvements such as paving, curbing, installation or contribution to traffic
          signals,  construction   of sidewalks,   bikeways,   accessways,     paths,   or
          streets/roadways that serve the proposed  use where the existing transportation
          system may be burdened by the proposed use may be required.

                                               20100010
                                                                     Chapter 4-Supplemental Provisions
              DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

           CHAPTER 5 CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW

SECTION                                                            PAGE
5.010     PURPOSE                                                  5-1
5.020     AUTHORIZATION TO GRANT OR DENY CONDITIONAL               5-1
          USES, AND STANDARDS AND CRITERIA USED
5.030     CONDITIONS                                               5-2

5.040     REVOCATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT                   5-3
5.050     CRITERIA FOR CERTAIN TRANSPORTATION                      5-4
          FACILITITES AND IMPROVEMENTS

                         20160610
                                           Chapter 5-Conditional Use Review
                                                                                                 Page 5-1

                       CHAPTER 5        CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW

SECTION 5.010 Purpose

A conditional use is an activity which is basically similar to the uses permitted in a
particular zone but which may not be entirely compatible with the permitted uses.
Therefore, a conditional use must be approved through the Administrative Action
procedure to ensure that the use is compatible with the permitted uses in a zone and
consistent with the general and specific purposes of this Ordinance, the Wasco County
Comprehensive Plan, and the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National
Scenic Area. Conditions of approval may be imposed to ensure that any use may be
made compatible with surrounding uses and that non-resource uses permitted in
resource areas do not interfere with accepted resource management practices.

SECTION 5.020     Authorization to Grant or Deny Conditional Uses, and
           ;      Standards and Criteria Used

Conditional uses listed in this Ordinance shail be permitted, enlarged or otherwise altered
or denied upon authorization by Administrative Action in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance. in judging whether or not a conditional use
proposal shall be approved or denied, the Administrative Authority shall weigh the
proposal's appropriateness and desirability or the public convenience or necessity to be
served against any adverse conditions that would result from authorizing the particular
development   at the   location   proposed,    and   to approve   such    use,   shall find that the
following criteria are- either met, can be met by observance of conditions, or are not
applicable.

A. The proposal is consistent with the goals and objectives of the Management Plan for
   the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area, and consistent with the provisions of
   the County's implementing ordinances.

B. Taking into account location, size, design and operational characteristics of the
   proposed use, the proposal is compatible with the surrounding area and development
   of abutting properties by outright permitted uses.

Cc. The proposed use will not exceed or significantly burden public facilities and services
    available to the area, including, but not limited to: roads, fire and police protection,
    sewer and water facilities, telephone and electrical service, or solid waste disposal
    facilities.

D. The proposed use will not unduly impair traffic flow or safety in the area.

                                              9 0 {1 0 0 6 1 0           Chapter 5-Conditional Use Review
Page 5-2

E. The effects of noise, dust and odor will be minimized during                               all    phases   of
   development and operation for the protection of adjoining properties.

    The proposed use will not significantly reduce or impair sensitive wildlife habitat,
    riparian vegetation along streambanks and will not subject areas to excessive soil
    erosion.

    The proposed use will not adversely affect the air, water, or land resource quality of
    the area.

     The location and design of the site and structures for the proposed                            use will not
     significantly detract from the visual character of the area.

    The proposal will preserve areas of historic value, natural or cutturai significance,
    including archaeological sites, or assets of particular interest to the community.

For properties located within or adjacent to farm or forest zones,                       or located nearby
agricultural and forest operations, the following shall apply:

J. The proposed use is compatible with agricultural uses and will not force a change in,
   or significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest practices on surrounding
   lands devoted to, or available for, farm or forest use.

    The proposed use or development will be sited in such a way as to minimize the loss
    of forest or agricultural land suitable for the production of crops or livestock and to
    minimize the chance of interference and not force a change in accepted farm or
    forest practices on surrounding lands devoted to, or available for, farm or forest use.

     The use or development will not significantly increase fire hazard, fire suppression
     costs or risks to fire suppression personnel.

    A declaration shall be signed by the landowner and recorded into county deeds and
    records specifying that the owners, successors, heirs and assigns of the subject
     property       are   aware       that adjacent   and   nearby   operators   are   entitled     to carry on
    accepted agriculture or forest practices on lands designated Large-Scale or Small-
    Scale Agriculture, Agriculture-Special, Commercial Forest Land, or Large or Small
    Woodland.

SECTION 5.030 Conditions

Such reasonable conditions as are necessary to ensure the compatibility of a conditional
use to surrounding permitted uses as are necessary to fulfill the general and specific
purposes of this Ordinance may be imposed in approving an application, pursuant to

a          5-Conditional Use Review
                                                                     20100010
                                                                                                 Page 5-3

 2.120(C).   Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:

 A. Limiting the manner in which the use is conducted including restricting the time an
    activity may take place and restraints to minimize such environmental effects as noise,
    vibration, air pollution, glare, and odor.

      Establishing a special yard or other open space or lot area or dimension.

      Limiting the height, size, or location of a building or other structure.
moo

      Designating the size, number, location, and nature of vehicle access points.

      Increasing the amount of street dedication, roadway width or improvements within the
      street right-of-way.

      Limiting or otherwise designating the number,         size, location, height and lighting of
      signs.

   . Limiting the location and intensity of outdoor lighting and requiring its shielding.

      Requiring diking, screening, landscaping or another facility to protect adjacent or
      nearby property and designating standards for its installation and maintenance.

      Designating the size, height, location and materials for a fence.

      Protecting and preserving existing trees, vegetation, water resources, wildlife habitat
      or other significant natural, historic, or cultural resources.

      Other conditions to permit the development of the County in conformity with the intent
      and purpose of the conditional classification of uses.

 SECTION 5.040       Revocation of Conditional Use Permit

 Noncompliance with any condition placed on a conditional use permit shall be grounds for
 revocation of the permit. Revocation of a conditional use permit shall be considered a
 land use action and reviewed by the Planning Commission. The following procedures
 shall be completed at least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the revocation hearing:

 A. A notice of violation pursuant to Section 15.090 shail be sent to the owner of the
    property on which the conditional use takes place.

      Notice of public hearing pursuant to 2.100(B) shall be sent.

                                           2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0               Chapter 5-Conditional Use Review
                                                                                           P|
Page 5-4

The opportunity for review of the Planning Commission decision, pursuant to Section
2.160 shall be available.

SECTION 5.050 Criteria for Certain Transportation Facilities and Improvements.

A. Construction,           reconstruction,   or widening   of highways,      roads,    bridges   or    other
     transportation        facilities that are (1) not designated   in the   adopted     Wasco        County
     Transportation System Plan (“TSP”) or (2) not designed and constructed as part of an
     approved, active, development order, are allowed in all zoning districts subject to the
     Conditional Use Review provisions of this ordinance and satisfaction of all of the
     following criteria :

     4.     The project and its design are consistent with the County's adopted TSP and
            consistent with the State Transportation Planning Rule, OAR 660-012 (‘the
            TPR’).

     2.     The project design is compatible with abutting land uses in regard to noise
            generation and public safety and is consistent with the applicable zoning and
            development standards and criteria for the abutting properties.

     3.     The project preserves or improves the safety and function of the facility through
            access management, traffic calming, or other design features.

     4.     The project includes provisions for bicycle and pedestrian access and circulation
            consistent with the requirements of this ordinance, and the TSP.

B.   State transportation system facility or improvement projects. The Oregon Department
     of Transportation (‘ODOT’) shall provide a narrative statement with the application
     demonstrating compliance with all of the criteria and standards in this Section. Where
     applicable, an Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Assessment may
     be used to address one or more of these criteria.

C.   Proposal inconsistent with TSP/TPR. If the County determines that the proposed use
     or activity or its design is inconsistent with the TSP or TPR, then the applicant shall
     first attempt to amend the project so that it is consistent. If the applicant can justify
     this is not practicable they can apply for a Management Plan and/or Zoning
     amendment prior to or in conjunction with conditional use permit approval. The
     applicant shall choose one of the following options:

     4.     If the County's determination of inconsistency is made prior to a final decision on
            the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall withdraw the conditional
            use application; or

a          §-Conditional Use Review
                                                               20100010
                                                                                         Page 5-5

2.   If the County's determination of inconsistency is made prior to a final decision on
     the conditional use permit application, the applicant shall withdraw the conditional
     permit application, apply for a Management Plan/Zone amendment, and re-apply
     for a conditional use permit if and when the amendment is approved; or

3.   If the County's determination of inconsistency is made prior to a final decision on
     the conditional use permit application, the applicant shail submit a Management
     Plan/Zoning amendment application for joint review and decision with the
     conditional use permit application, along with a written waiver of the ORS 215.429
     420/150-day period within which to complete all local reviews and appeals once
     the application is deemed complete; or

4.   If the County’s determination of inconsistency is part of a final decision on the
     conditional use permit application, the applicant shall submit a new conditional use
     permit application, along with   a Management Plan/Zoning amendment application
     for joint review and decision.

                                         20100010.              Chapter 5-Conditional Use Review
                    DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

                 CHAPTER 8 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT

SECTION                                                                 PAGE
8.010     PURPOSE                                                       8-1
8.020     PERMITTED TEMPORARY USES                                      8-1
8.030     CRITERIA FOR DECISION                                         8-1
8.040     CONDITIONS RELATIVE TO THE ISSUANCE OF                        8-1
          TEMPORARY PERMITS
8.050     ISSUANCE OF PERMITS                                           8-2
8.060     TEMPORARY USE OF A MOBILE HOME (FAMILY HARDSHIP)              8-2

                                  20100010
                                                   Chapter 8-Temporary Use Permit
                                                                                          Page 8-1

                           CHAPTER 8 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT

SECTION 8.010 Purpose

A temporary use permit may be approved to allow the limited use of structures or
activities which are temporary or seasonal in nature and do not conflict with the zoning
district in which they are located. No temporary use permit shall be issued which would
have the effect of permanently rezoning or granting a special privilege not shared by other
properties in the same zoning district.

SECTION 8.020 Permitted Temporary Uses

Temporary structures, activities or uses may be permitted, pursuant to 2.050(A) of this
Ordinance, Chapter 3 — Basic Provisions, and Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

SECTION 8.030      Criteria for Decision

No temporary permits shall be issued except upon a finding that the proposed structure,
activity or use would not permit the permanent establishment within a zoning district any
use not permitted within the zoning district of any use for which a conditional use permit is
required.

SECTION 8.040 Conditions Relative to the Issuance of Temporary Permits

A. Reasonable conditions may be imposed pursuant to 2.120(C) by the Approving
   Authority in connection with the temporary permit to minimize the potential impact of
   the proposed use to other uses in the vicinity. Guarantees and evidence may be
   required that such conditions will be or are being complied with. Such conditions may
   include, but are not limited to:

   1.   Special yards and spaces;

   2.   Fences or wails;

   3.   Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;

   4.   Special provisions on signs;

   5.   Landscaping and maintenance thereof;

   6.   Maintenance of the grounds;

                                                2   0 1 0 6 6 1 0   Chapter 8-Temporary Use Permit
                                                                                    XK, XXXX 2010
Page 8-2

     7. Control of noise, odors, or other nuisances;

     8.    Limitation of time for certain activities.

    Any temporary pennit shall clearly set forth the conditions under which the permit is
    granted and shall clearly indicate the time period for which the permit is issued. No
    temporary permit shall be transferable to any other owner or occupant, but may be
    renewable through the Administrative Action process.

    All structures for which a temporary permit is issued:

     1. Shall meet all other requirements of the zoning district in which they are located;

     2.    Shall meet all applicable County health and sanitation requirements;

     3. Shall meet all applicable County building code requirements:

     4.    Shall be removed upon expiration of the temporary permit unless renewed by the
           Director, or used in conjunction with a permitted use; and

     5.    Shall meet the appropriate      requirements for the protection and enhancement               of
           scenic, cultural, natural and        recreation   resources   as required   in Chapter    14 -
           Scenic Area Review.

SECTION 8.050          Issuance of Permits

A. Temporary permits shall be issued for the time period specified by the Approving
   Authority but may be renewable upon expiration as an Administrative Action if all
   applicable conditions can again be met. In no case shall a temporary permit be
   issued for a period exceeding two (2) years, unless the temporary permit is renewed.

     Renewal of a temporary            permit     shall   follow the   same   procedure   as the    initial
     application.

SECTION 8.060          Temporary Use of a Mobile Home (Family Hardship)

A. During a family hardship condition where the condition relates to the necessary care
   for aged, infirm or persons otherwise incapable of maintaining a separate residence,
   the Director may authorize the placement of a mobile home on a lot if the following
   criteria are met:

Chapter 8-Temporary Use Permit                                   9 0 i 6 0 0 1 0
XX, 00     2010
                                                                                           Page 8-3

 1. The request for the mobile home is submitted in writing. Such request shail state
    the nature of the hardship, the names of the persons who will occupy such
    dwelling, the relationship of the occupants of such dwelling to the residents, and
    the estimated period of time the dwelling will remain on the property.

 2. The additional! dwelling will use the same subsurface sewage disposal system
    used by the existing dwelling if that said sewage disposal system is adequate to
    accommodate the additional dwelling unless the additional dwelling can utilize a
    public sanitary sewer system.

 3. The additional dwelling is a mobile home or recreational vehicle as defined in
    Section 1.200 of this Ordinance.

 4. A family hardship      exists where   conditions relate to the necessary         care for a
     member of the family occupying the          principal   dwelling   and   where      medical
     conditions relate to the infirm or aged.

 5. The location and use of the additional dwelling otherwise conforms to the
    provisions established for the zone, and is found to be consistent with Chapter 14 -
     Scenic Area Review.

. Temporary placement of an additional dwelling may be granted for the time period
 specified by the Director, subject to annual review for compliance with the provisions
 of this section and any other conditions of approval. A temporary use permit may be
 renewable upon expiration if all applicable conditions can be met. In no case shall a
 temporary placement be authorized for a period exceeding two (2) years, unless the
 temporary placement is renewed.

. The Director shall determine whether or not the conditions described in this section
  warrant approval of the request to place an additional dwelling on the property. The
  Director may require a Doctor's, Physicians Assistant or nurse Practitioner statement
  showing that the person is incapable of maintaining a separate residence and needs
  to be near a family member for care and supervision. The Director may also require
 the applicant to provide any other evidence as he deems           necessary to make          that
 determination.

. Upon expiration of the time period for which the temporary placement was authorized,
  or at such time as the hardship ceases to exist, whichever comes first, the property
  owner shall have thirty (30) days in which to remove the additional dwelling from the
  property, unless an extension is granted as prescribed above.

                                              9 0 4   G 0 0 1 0     Chapter &-Temporary Use Permit
                                                                                    XX, XXXX 2010
                    DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

          CHAPTER 9 ZONE CHANGE, ORDINANCE AMENDMENT AND
                    REVISION OF URBAN AREA BOUNDARIES

SECTION
9.010           GORGE COMMISSION
9.020           APPLICATION FOR ZONE CHANGE
9.030           CRITERIA FOR DECISION
9.040           TRANSPORATION PLANNING RULE COMPLIANCE              9-2
9.050           CONDITIONS RELATIVE TO THE APPROVAL
                OF A ZONE CHANGE
9.060           AMENDMENTS TO THE ZONING ORDINANCE
9.070           RECOMMENDATION ON ZONE CHANGE OR
                AMENDMENT TO THE LAND USE AND
                DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
9.080           NOTICE OF PLANNING COMMISSION                      9-5
                RECOMMEDATION
9.090           ACTION BY COUNTY GOVERNING    BODY                  9-5
9.100           ACTION BY THE GORGE COMMISSION                      9-5
9.110           AMENDMENT OF THE MANAGEMENT      PLAN              9-6
9.120           REVISION OF URBAN AREA BOUNDARIES                   9-6

                                        20100010
                                                        Chapter 9-Amendments
                                                                                        Page 9-1

            CHAPTER 9      ZONE CHANGE AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENT

SECTION 9.010     Gorge Commission

All zone changes shall first require an amendment to the Management Plan by the Gorge
Commission. Upon receipt of an application for a zone change, the Gorge Commission
shall schedule a hearing on the matter and take such action as may appear appropriate
to that body. Amendments to the Management Plan shall be conducted by the Gorge
Commission as specified in Section 9.100, Amendment of the Management Plan.

Upon final approval of the zone change by the Gorge Commission          and concurrence by
the Secretary of Agriculture, the zone change shall be reviewed by the County pursuant
to those procedures set out in Sections 9.020, 9.030, 9.040, 9.060, 9.070 and 9.080.

SECTION 9.020     Application for Zone Change

Application for a zone change may be initiated as follows:

A. By resolution of the County Court referring to the Planning Commission a proposal
   therefore;

B. By a majority vote of the Planning      Commission    confirmed   by the Wasco      County
   Goveming Body;

C. By application filed with the Director of Planning upon forms prescribed by the Director
   of Planning and signed by a property owner within the area of the proposed change,
   and containing such information as may be required to establish the criteria for the
   change (quasi-judicial only);

D. By petition filed with the Director of Planning upon forms prescribed by the Director
   and bearing the signatures of not less than two hundred (200) registered voters of the
   County.

   Any petition for a Zone Change shall be accompanied by any additional information or
   material which petitioners feel justifies the need for action.

   Within 90 days of receipt of the petition the Director of Planning shall present the
   petition to the County Goveming Body and provide a recommendation. An authorized
   representative of the petitioners shall be notified of the date of the review and shall be
   allowed the opportunity to explain the petition. The County Goveming Body may
   accept or reject the petition. If the petition is accepted the County Governing Body
   shall determine the timeframe to initiate the Zone Change process.

E. By request of the Planning Director, limited to changes required to implement the
   Comprehensive Plan, the Management Plan, or to eliminate spot zoning.

                                                2 0 1 0 0 Q 1 0            Chapter 9-Amendments
                                                                                  XX, 3000 2010
Page 9-2

SECTION 9.030            Criteria for Decision

The Approving Authority may grant a zone change only if the following circumstances are
found to exist:

A. The original zoning was the product of a mistake; or

B. It is established that:

    4. The rezoning will conform with the Management                  Plan for the Columbia        River
       Gorge National Scenic Area; and,

    2.     The site is suitable to the proposed zone;

    3.     There has been a conscious consideration of the public health, safety and welfare
           in applying the specific zoning regulations.

SECTION 9.040 Transportation Planning Rule Compliance

A. Review of Applications for Effect_on Transportation Facilities - A proposed zone
   change or land use regulation change, when initiated by the County or by a private
   interest, shall include a transportation analysis concurrently with the application. The
   application shail be reviewed to determine whether it significantly affects a
   transportation facility, in accordance with Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-
   012-0060 (the Transportation Planning Rule — “TPR").           “Significant” means the
   proposal would:

     1. Change the functional classification of an existing or planned                   transportation
        facility (exclusive of correction of map errors in an adopted plan);

     2. Change standards implementing a functional classification system; or

     3. As     measured       at the   end   of the   planning   period   identified   in the   adopted
           transportation system pian:

           a. Allow land uses or levels of development that would result in types or levels
              of travel or access that are inconsistent with the functional classification of an
              existing or planned transportation facility;

           b. Reduce the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility
              below the minimum acceptable performance standard identified in the TSP;
              or

           c. Worsen the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility that
              is otherwise   projected to perform below the minimum             acceptable
              performance standard identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan.

    B. Amendments That Affect Transportation Facilities              - Amendments to the land use
           regulations    that significantly affect a transportation      facility shall ensure     that

Chapter 9-Amendments
1, XK 2010                                              20100010
                                                                                                      Page 9-3

           allowed land uses are consistent with the function, capacity, and level of service
           of the facility identified in the TSP. This shall be accomplished by one or a
           combination of the following:

           1, Adopting measures that demonstrate allowed land uses are consistent with
               the planned function,          capacity,    and    performance      standards      of      the
               transportation facility.

               Amending the TSP or comprehensive plan to provide transportation facilities,
               improvements     or services     adequate     to   support   the   proposed     land     uses
               consistent with the requirements of Section -0060 of the TPR.

               Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
               demand for vehicle travel and meet travel needs through other modes of
               transportation. This may require a Management Plan arnendment.

               Amending the TSP to modify the planned function, capacity or performance
               standards of the transportation facility.

        Cc. Traffic Impact Analysis - A Traffic Impact Analysis shall be submitted with a zone
            change application pursuant to Section 4.120 Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA))

 SECTION 9.050         Conditions Relative to the Approval of a Zone Change

 Reasonable conditions may be imposed, pursuant to Section 2.110(D) as are necessary
 to insure the compatibility of a zone change to surrounding uses and as are necessary to
 fulfill the general and specific purposes of this Ordinance. Such conditions may include,
 but are not limited to, the following:

 A. Special yards and spaces;

        Fences and walls;
fw

        Special parking and/or loading provisions;
omms9

        Street dedication and improvements or bonds in lieu of improvements;

        Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress;

        Special provisions for signs;

        Lighting, landscaping and maintenance of grounds;

        Control of noise, vibration, odors, or other similar nuisances.
zr

                                                          2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0             Chapter 9-Amendments
                                                                                             XX, KOK 2010
Page 9-4

SECTION 9.060           Amendments to the Zoning Ordinance

Amendments to this Ordinance may be initiated as follows:

A. By resolution of the County Governing Body referring a proposed amendment to the
   Planning Commission for its consideration, report and recommendations;

    By a majority vote of the Planning            Commission      confirmed   by the Wasco    County
    Governing Body;

    By petition filed with the Director of Planning upon forms prescribed by the Director
    and bearing the signatures of:

    4.     Not less than two hundred (200) registered voters of the County; or

    2. Where the proposed amendment would affect a limited area within the County, at
       least sixty percent (60%) of the recorded owners of property within the area and
       three hundred (300) feet thereof, and accompanied by a list of the record owners
       of property within the area and three hundred feet thereof.

           Any petition for Ordinance amendment shall be accompanied by any additional
           information or material which petitioners feel justifies the need for action.

           Within 90 days of receipt of the petition the Director of Planning shall present the
           petition to the County Governing Body and provide a recommendation.           An
           authorized representative of the petitioners shall be notified of the date of the
           review and shall be allowed the opportunity to explain the petition. The County
           Goveming Body may accept or reject the petition. If the petition is accepted the
           County Governing Body shall determine the timeframe to initiate the Ordinance
           Amendment process.

     By    request     of the   Director   of Planning   or the   District Attomey   to conform   the
    Ordinance to changes in the State Law;

    Any Ordinance amendment that will require an amendment to the Management Plan
    shall first be reviewed by the Gorge Commission and concurred upon by the Secretary
    of Agriculture pursuant to those procedures set out in Section 9.100, Amendment to
    the Management          Plan.   Upon amendment of the Management            Plan, the application
    shall be reviewed by the County, pursuant to those procedures set out in Sections
    9.050, 9.060, 9.070, 9.080 and 9.090 of this ordinance.

    Any Ordinance amendment that does not require an amendment to the Management
    Plan shail first be reviewed by the County, pursuant to those procedures set out in
    Sections 9.050, 9.060, 9.070, 9.080 and 9.090 of this ordinance.

                                                                  20100010
Chapter 9-Amendments
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                            Page 9-5

SECTION 9.070     Recommendation on Zone Change or Amendment to the Land Use
                  and Development Ordinance

After the hearing, the Approving Authority shall recommend that the proposed zone
change or amendment to the Zoning Ordinance be granted or denied. The Planning
Director or his/her assistants shall reduce to writing the Planning Commission's
recommendations together with a brief statement of the facts and reasons upon which
such recommendation is based.

SECTION 9.080     Notice of Planning Commission      Recommendation

Within ten (10) days of the Planning Commission hearing, the Director of Planning or his
assistants shall give notice thereof to any persons who signed in and testified at the
hearing and to such other persons as may have requested the same in writing.

SECTION 9.090     Action by County Governing Body

Upon receipt of the Commission report, the County Goveming Body shail take such
action as may appear appropriate to that body, or as it feels the public interest requires,
provided that in no event shall the County Court act until at least twenty (20) days after
the Notice of Planning Commission Recommendation has been mailed.

SECTION 9.100     Action by the Gorge Commission

The Columbia River Gorge Scenic Area Act governs the process for counties to adopt
land use ordinances consistent with the management plan. The following is a summary
of 16 U.S.C. § 544e(7)(b):

All ordinance amendments shall require review by the Gorge Commission, and approval,
before the ordinance amendments can be implemented.

Upon receipt of the final order of the Ordinance amendment by the County Court, the
Gorge Commission shall schedule a hearing on the matter and take such action as may
appear appropriate to that body.

Within ninety (90) days after receipt of the final order by the County Court of the
ordinance amendments, the Gorge Commission, by majority vote including at least three
members from each State, shall approve the ordinance amendments, unless the Gorge
Commission determines the ordinance amendments            are inconsistent with the
Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

Should the Gorge Commission fail to act within          ninety   (90)   days,     the   ordinance
amendments shall be deemed to be approved.

The commission shall submit amendments to the Special Management Area ordinance to
the Secretary of Agriculture. If the Secretary fails to act within ninety (90) days the

                                                      20100010                  cramer samenaments
Page 9-6

Secretary shall be deemed          to have   concurred   on   the   Special   Management   Area
ordinance amendments.                                                           .

SECTION 9.110          Amendment of the Management Plan

Congress gave the Gorge Commission the authority to amend the Management Plan,
after adoption, if the Gorge Commission determines that conditions within the Scenic
Area have changed significantly it may amend the Management Plan pursuant to
Commission Rule 350-50.

SECTION 9.120          Revision of Urban Area Boundaries

Congress designated 13 cities and towns as "Urban Area": Cascade Locks, Hood River,
Mosier and The Dalles, Oregon, and Bingen, Carson, Daliesport, Home Valley, Lyle,
North Bonneville, Stevenson, White Salmon and Wishram, Washington. Urban Areas
are exempt from regulation under the Management Plan... Congress established the
boundaries of the Urban Areas when it enacted the Scenic Area Act.              However, it
authorized the Gorge Commission to make minor revisions to the Urban Area boundaries.
Congress also set forth in the Scenic Area Act a process and criteria for use by the Gorge
Commission in carrying out the revision process. The Gorge Commission may revise
Urban Area Boundaries pursuant to Commission Rule 350-40.

Chapter 9-Amendments
                                                   20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                   DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER 10   RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS, DISPOSAL SITES, AND
             MINERAL AND AGGREGATE REVIEW

SECTION                                                                    PAGE
10.100        RESOURCE   ENHANCEMENT   PROJECTS                            10-1
10.200        DISPOSAL SITES                                               10-3
10.300        MINERAL AND AGGREGATE    REVIEW                              10-4

                         20100010
                                         Chapter 10-Enhancement/Disposal/Aggregate
                                                                                                             Page 10-1

           CHAPTER 10           RESOURCE ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS, DISPOSAL
                               SITES AND MINERAL & AGGREGATE REVIEW

SECTION 10.100 Resource Enhancement Projects (GMA & SMA)

Resource       enhancement          projects   for    the    purpose     of     enhancing     scenic,       cultural,
recreation     and/or     natural    resources,      which    may     include     new   structures       (e.g.,   fish
ladders, sediment barriers) and/or activities (e.g., closing and revegetating                               unused
roads, recontouring abandoned quarries) subject to the following criteria:

A. Applications for resource enhancement projects must describe the goals and
   benefits of the proposed enhancement project. They must also thoroughly document
   the condition of the resource before and after the proposed enhancement project.

   In addition to other guidelines that protect scenic, cultural, recreation, and natural
   resources, quarry enhancement projects shall comply with the following:

   1.     Application Requirements. In addition to other applicable requirements, land use
          applications for quarry enhancement projects shall include a reclamation plan
          that provides all the applicable information specified in 10.300(A) except the
          words "pre-reclamation" and “post-reclamation” should replace the words "pre-
          mining"   and    "post-mining,"      respectively,    and    the      appropriate   state     agency      or
          local government does not have to approve the reclamation plan and meet the
          requirements of 10.300(B)(1) if any of the quarry enhancement project is visible
          from Key Viewing Areas.

        . Scenic Resource       Standard.      Quarry enhancement             projects shall restore the site
          to a natural appearance that blends with and emulates surrounding landforms to
          the maximum extent practicable.

        . Natural Resource Standard. Sites shall be replanted using native plants found in
          the landscape setting or ecoregion to the maximum extent practicable.

        . Time Frames.       The following time frames              shall appiy to quarry enhancement
          projects:

          a. All grading (e.g., excavating, filling and re-contouring) shall be completed
             within one (1) year of the date an applicant begins on-the-ground work.

          b. All landscaping shall be planted within one (1) year of the date an applicant
             completes the grading.

                                                        20100010
                                                               Chapter 10-Resource Enhancement Projects
                                                                                                      January 10, 2006
Page 10-2

            c. An applicant may request one one-year extension to the one year grading
               time frame if a project is unexpectedly delayed by adverse weather or
               emergency/disaster. Such requests shall be considered an administrative
               action. An applicant shall submit such a request to the reviewing agency
               after grading has commenced and before the one year grading time frame
               has expired.

            d. An applicant may also request one six-month extension to the one (1) year
               landscaping time frame if a project is unexpectedly delayed by adverse
               weather or emergency/disaster. Such requests shall be considered an
               administrative action. An applicant shall’ submit such a request to the
               reviewing agency after landscaping has commenced and before the one-year
               landscaping time frame has expired.

Chapter 10-Resource Enhancement Projects               20100010
January 10, 2006
                                                                                        Page 10-3

SECTION 10.200        Disposal Sites (GMA & SMA)

Disposal sites managed and operated by the Oregon Department of Transportation, or
the Wasco County Public Works department for earth materials and any intermixed
vegetation generated by routine or emergency/disaster public road maintenance
activities within the Scenic Area, subject to the following:

A. Application Requirements. In addition to other applicable requirements, land use
   applications for disposal sites shall include the same information that applicants are
   required to submit for expansion of existing quarries and production and/or
   development of mineral resources in the GMA which are indicated in 10.300(A) &
   (B)(1), Mineral and Aggregate Review, in addition to the following:

   4. Cultural resource reconnaissance and historic surveys, as required by Section
      14.500. Disposal sites shall be considered a “large-scale use”.

   2.   Field surveys to identify sensitive wildlife areas or sites and sensitive plants as
        described in Section 14.600.

B. Siting Standard.    The proposed disposal site shall only be approved if the applicant
   demonstrates it is not practicable to locate the disposal site outside the Scenic Area
   or inside an Urban Area. At a minimum, the applicant shall submit a feasibility and
   suitability analysis that compares the proposed disposal site to existing or potential
   disposal sites located both outside the Scenic Area and inside an Urban Area.

C. Scenic Resource Standards.     Disposal sites shall comply with the same scenic
   resources protection standards as expansion of existing quarries and production
   and/or development of mineral resources in the GMA, in 10.300(B)(2) through (5).

                                                2 0 1 6 ¢ ¢ 1 0         Chapter 10-Disposal Sites
                                                                                 January 10, 2008
Page 10-4

SECTION 10.300            Mineral and Aggregate Review (GMA Only)

A. All Mineral and Aggregate Operations

    4.      For all new production and/or development of mineral resources and expansion
            of existing quarries, a reclamation plan is required in addition to the site plan.
            The reclamation plan shail address the restoration of the site to a natural
            appearance which blends with and emulates surrounding landforms to the
            maximum extent practicable.       At a minimum, such reclamation plans shall
            include:

            a. A map of the site, at a scale of 1" = 200' or a scale at greater detail with ten
               (10) foot contour intervals or less, showing pre-mining existing grades and
               post-mining, final grades; locations of topsoil stockpiles for eventual
               reclamation use; location of catch-basins or similar drainage and erosion
               control features employed for the duration of the use; and the location of
               storage, processing and equipment areas employed for the duration of the
               use;

            b. Cross-sectional      drawings   of the site showing          pre-mining    and   post-mining
               grades;

            c.   Descriptions of the proposed use, in terms of estimated quantity and type of
                 material removed, estimated duration of the use, and processing activities;

            d. A landscaping plan providing for revegetation consistent with the vegetation
               patterns of the subject landscape setting, indicating the species, number, size
               and location of plantings for the final reclaimed grade, as well as a description
                 of irrigation provisions or other measures necessary to ensure the survival of
                 plantings.

            e.   Descriptions of drainage/erosion       control   features to be employed           for the
                 duration of the use.

    2. All reclamation plans for new quarries or expansion of existing quarries shall be
       sent to the Oregon Department of Geological and Mineral Industries (DOGAMI)
       for review and comment. DOGAMI shall have 30 calendar days from the date a
       reclamation plan is mailed to submit written comments on the proposal. DOGAMI
       comments shall address the following:

            a. whether     the    proposed     mining   is   subject   to     state   reclamation    permit
                 requirements;
            b. if subject to state jurisdiction, whether an application has been received for a
               state reclamation permit and, if so, the current status of the application; and

OOK          soo    & Aooreasie Review                                 9    0 1 (0 0 0   1 0
                                                                                                  Page 10-5

        c. for uses subject to state jurisdiction, any issues or concerns regarding
           consistency with state reclamation        requirements, or any suggested
           modifications to comply with state reclamation requirements.

        The County may request technical assistance from DOGAMI and other State
        Agencies on reclamation plans for proposed mining not within the state agency’s
        jurisdiction.

B. Mineral and Aggregate Operations Visible from Key Viewing Areas

   1.   For proposed mining and associated activities on lands visible from Key Viewing
        Areas applicants shall submit perspective drawings of the proposed mining areas
        as seen from applicable Key Viewing Areas.

   2.   Expansion of existing quarries and new production and/or development of
        mineral resources proposed on sites more than three miles from the nearest Key
        Viewing Areas from which it is visible may be allowed upon a demonstration that
        the area to be mined and the area to be used for primary processing, equipment
        storage, stockpiling, etc., associated with the use would be visually subordinate
        in the GMA as seen from any Key Viewing areas based on findings addressing
        the extent of visibility of proposed mining activities from Key Viewing Areas,
        including:                                                                .

        a.   a   list of   Key   Viewing   Areas   from   which   exposed    mining     surfaces      (and
             associated facilities/ activities) would be visible;

        b. an estimate of the surface area of exposed mining surfaces which would be
           visible from those Key Viewing Areas;

        c. the distance from those Key Viewing Areas and the linear distance along
           those Key Viewing Areas from which proposed mining surfaces are visible;

        d. the slope and aspect of mining surfaces relative to those portions of Key
           Viewing Areas from which they are visible;

        e. the degree to which potentially visible mining surfaces are screened from Key
           Viewing Areas by existing vegetation, including winter screening and
           considerations;

        f,   The degree to which potentially visible mining surfaces would be screened by
             new plantings, berms, etc., and approximate time frames to achieve such
             results, including winter screening considerations.

                                              90100010               Chapter 10-Mineral & Aggregate Review
                                                                                             XX, 230000 2010
Page 10-6

    3.      An     interim   time   period   to   achieve   compliance    with    visual   subordinance
            requirements in the GMA, for expansion of existing quarries and development of
            new quarries located more than three miles from the nearest visible Key Viewing
            Area    shall be established     prior to approval.   The    interim time period    shall be
            based on site-specific topographic and visual conditions, but shail not exceed
            three years beyond the date of approval.

    4.      New production and/or development of mineral resources on sites less than 3
            miles from the nearest Key Viewing Area may be allowed upon a demonstration
            that the area to be mined and the area used for primary processing, equipment
            storage, stockpiling, etc, associated with the use would be fully screened from
            any Key Viewing Area as described in 5 below. The applicant shall also meet
            the requirements of B(2) above.

    5.      An interim time period to achieve compliance with full screening requirements for
            new quarries located less than three miles from the nearest visible Key Viewing
            Area shall be established prior to approval. The interim time period shall be
            based on site-specific topographic and visual conditions, but shail not exceed
            one year beyond the date of approval.        Quarrying activity occurring prior to
            achieving compliance with full screening requirements shail be limited to
            activities necessary to provide screening, for example the creation of berms and
            planting of trees.

Chapter 10-Mineral & Aggregate Review                               2    0 1   6 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                 DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER 13   NONCONFORMING   USES,  BUILDINGS    AND    LOTS   &
             CONSOLIDATION OF UNDEVELOPED     SUBDIVISIONS AND
             LEGAL PARCELS

SECTION                                                               PAGE
13.010       PURPOSE                                                  13-1
13.020       NONCONFORMING   USES                                     13-1
13.030       CONVEYANCE OF NONCONFORMING       USE                    13-1
13.040       CONSTRUCTION ON AND CONVEYANCE OF                        13-1
             NONCONFORMING LEGAL PARCELS
13.050       GORGE COMMISSION   PRIOR APPROVED ACTIONS                13-1
13.060       VERIFICATION OF NONCONFORMING     USE                    13-2
13.070       RESTORATION OR REPLACEMENT OF LEGALLY                    13-3
             CREATED NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE

13.080       CHANGE TO NONCONFORMING    USES                          13-7
             & STRUCTURES

13.090       MINERAL RESOURCE   EXTRACTION - GMA ONLY                 13-7
13.100       MINERAL RESOURCE EXTRACTION — SMA ONLY                   13-7
13.110       SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL ~ SMA ONLY                          13-8
13.200       CONSOLIDATION OF UNDEVELOPED SUBDIVISONS              = 13-9
             & LEGAL PARCELS

                             20160010
                                                 Chapter 73-Nonconforming Uses
                                                                                          Page 13-1

          CHAPTER 13      NONCONFORMING         USES, BUILDINGS AND LOTS

SECTION 13.010      Purpose

It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of this Ordinance, that all uses and
structures incompatible with permitted uses or structures in each zone, be strictly
regulated and permitted to exist only under rigid controls. The purpose of such regulation
and control, is to change a nonconforming use or structure to a conforming status or to
discontinue the use or structure.

SECTION 13.020      Continuation of Nonconforming Uses

Except as is hereinafter provided in this Ordinance, the lawful use of a building or
structure or of any land or premises lawfully existing at the time of the effective date of
this Ordinance or at the time of a change in the official zoning maps may be continued as
long as it is used in the same manner and for the same purpose, although such use
does not conform with the provisions of this Ordinance.                                         :

SECTION    13.030   Conveyance of Nonconforming Use

Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to limit the sale, transfer, or conveyance of
property on which exists a nonconforming building, structure or use, so long as such sale,
transfer, or other conveyance does not otherwise violate the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION    13.040 Construction on and Conveyance of Nonconforming Legal
                   Parcels

Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to prohibit construction or reconstruction of
conforming uses on nonconforming legal parcels or limit the sale, transfer or conveyance
 of said legal parcels approved prior to the adoption of this Ordinance, so long as the
construction, reconstruction, sale, transfer     or   conveyance       is   consistent   with       all
applicable provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION    13.050   Gorge Commission Prior Approved Actions

Any land use action that has been authorized by the Gorge Commission or Forest
Service for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area shall remain valid for the time
period initially authorized or a time period granted by extension in accordance with
Commission Rule 350-110 or the Interim Guidelines, as applicable. All land use actions

                                                2 0 1     0 C 6 1 Denapter 13-Non-Conforming Uses
                                                                                     XX, XXXX 2010
Page 13-2

authorized under Interim Guidelines shall maintain concurrent County approval to remain
valid.

Nothing in the Ordinance will require the loss of a use, activity, structure or parcel of land
that was approved by the Gorge Commission or Forest Service for the time period initially
authorized or a time period granted by extension in accordance with Commission Rule
350-110          or the   Interim   Guidelines,   as    applicable.     If an    approval           period   has   lapsed
without extension, the development action shall be processed as a new action subject to
current County Land Use Ordinance.                           :

SECTION 13.060 Verification of Nonconforming Use.
Must meet lawfully established and discontinuance or abandonment criteria below.

A.   Lawfully Established:           For a nonconforming use to be verified as lawfully established
     it shall be consistent with ail of the following:

     1. The nonconforming use has not been expanded in size or area or changed                                          in
        purpose or use beyond what was lawfully established;

     2. The property on which the nonconforming use is located meets the definition of
        legal parcel in Chapter 1 of this ordinance;

     3. The nonconforming use was lawfully established on or before the effective date of
        the provisions of this ordinance prohibiting the use verified by either a or b below.
        No unlawful use of property existing at the time of the effective date of the
        provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed a nonconforming use.

            a.   Type     | Verification:    Lawfully     established     is    verified       by    non-discretionary
                 evidence including but not limited to zoning approval or County Assessor
                 records verifying the date of establishment. This type of verification is not
                 subject to any review process because it does not involve the exercise of any
                 discretion or judgment. If the applicant wishes documentation of this it shall be
                 done as a Land Use Verification Letter.

            b. Type II Verification: Lacking non-discretionary evidence, lawfully established is
               verified by a discretionary process consistent with Section 2.060(A)(7).

                 It is the burden of the applicant to provide a preponderance of evidence which
                 will allow the Planning Director to conclude the nonconforming use was lawfully
                 established. Such evidence includes but is not limited to:

                     -Utility Bills and Records (phone, power, sewer, water)
                     -Aerial Photographs                       .

Chapter 13-Nonconforming Uses                                9 6 1 0 0 G 1 0               :
XX, 30000 2010
                                                                                                  Page 13-3

                 -Dated Photos
                 -Notarized Letters or Affidavits affirming the date of establishment

B. Discontinuance or Abandonment:              For a nonconforming use to be verified as lawfully
   established       it must   not   have   been   discontinued    or abandoned      according     to the
   following criteria.  ased on the circumstances, the Director shall determine whether
   discontinuance or abandonment shall be reviewed as a Type | or Type II process as
   described in A above.

   4. The reference period for determining whether an abandonment or interruption of a
      nonconforming use or an aspect thereof has occurred shall be twelve (12)
      consecutive months. Proof of intent to abandon is not required to determine that a
      nonconforming use has been discontinued or abandoned.

   2. An abandonment or interruption of a use may arise from the complete cessation of
      the actual use for a twelve (12) month period even if improvements to support the
      use remain in place.

   3. An interruption or abandonment for a twelve (12) month period that constitutes
      less than full cessation of the use or a portion thereof may resuit in a declaration of
      a continuing use, but of a lesser intensity or scope than what would have been
        allowable if the nature and extent of the use as of the date it became
        nonconforming had continued, even if improvements to support the full use remain
        in place.

   4.   \f a use or structure is used in a different manner or for a different purpose for a
        twelve (12) month period than was lawfully established, such a change shall result
        in a determination that the use has been abandoned or has ceased.

        Factors to be considered in determining whether there has been a change in the
        nature of a use shail include, but are not limited to, consideration of the type of
        activities being conducted, the operating characteristics of the activities associated
        with the use (including off-site impacts of those activities), changes in structures
        associated with the use and changes               in the    degree    to which     the   activities
        associated with the use occupy the site.

SECTION     13.070      Restoration     or Replacement      of Legally Created        Nonconforming
                        Structure

A. Replacement of Existing Structures Not Damaged or Destroyed by Disaster: Except
   as provided in criterion below, an existing structure may be replaced if a complete
   land use application for a replacement structure is submitted to Wasco County

                                                   99100010                  Chapter 13-Non-Conforming Uses
                                                                                              XX, YOK 2010
Page 13-4

    within one year of the date the use of the original structure was discontinued. The
    replacement structure shall comply with the following standards:

     1. The replacement structure shall be used in the same manner and for the same
            purpose as the original structure.

            The    replacement   structure may   have   a different size and/or location than the
            original structure. An existing mobile home may be replaced with a framed
            residence and an existing framed residence may be replaced with a mobile
            home.

            The replacement structure shall be subject to the scenic, cultural, recreation and
            natural resources criteria; the treaty rights criteria; and the land use designations   -
            criteria for agricultural buffer zones, fire protection, and siting of dwellings on
            forest land.

            The original structure shall be considered discontinued if a complete land use
            application for a replacement structure is not submitted within the one year time
            frame.

B. Replacement of Existing Structures Damaged or Destroyed by Disaster: An existing
   structure damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, landslide or other similar disaster
   may be replaced if a complete land use application for a replacement structure is
   submitted to the Wasco County within two years of the date the original structure
   was damaged or destroyed.       The replacement structure shall comply with the
   following standards:

     1. The replacement structure shall be used in the same manner and for the same
        purpose as the original structure. An existing mobile home may be replaced with
            a framed residence.

            The replacement structure shall be in the same location as the original structure.
            An exception    may be granted and the replacement structure may be sited in a
            different location if the following conditions exist:

            aA        registered civil engineer, registered geologist, or other qualified and
                  licensed professional hired by the applicant demonstrates the disaster made
                  the original building site physically unsuitable for reconstruction.

            b. The new building site is no more visible from key viewing areas than the
               original building site. An exception may be granted if a registered civil
               engineer, registered geologist, or other qualified and licensed professional
               hired by the applicant demonstrates the subject parcel lacks alternative

Chapter 13-Nonconforming Uses                               >) 0 4 it 4] 6 419
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                          Page 13-5

       building sites physically suitable for construction that are no more visible from
       key viewing areas than the original building site.

  c. The new building site complies with the cultural resources, natural resources,
     and treaty rights protection criteria.

. The replacement structure shall be the same          size and     height as the original
  structure, provided:

  a. The footprint of the replacement structure may be up to 10 percent larger
     than the footprint of the original structure.

  b. The walls of the replacement structure shall be the same height as the walls
     of the original structure unless a minor increase is required to comply with
     standards in the current jurisdictional building code.

. The replacement structure shall only be subject to the following scenic resources
  standards:

  a. The replacement structure shall comply with the scenic resources criteria
     regarding color and reflectivity. These criteria shall be applied to achieve the
     applicable scenic standard (visually subordinate or not visually evident) to the
     maximum extent practicable.

  b.   Decks, verandas, balconies and other open portions of the original structure
       shall not be rebuilt as enclosed (walls and roof) portions of the replacement
       structure.

  c.   In the General    Management Area, the replacement structure shall comply
       with the scenic resources criteria regarding landscaping.        These criteria shall
       be applied to achieve the applicable scenic standard (visually subordinate) to
       the maximum extent practicable, provided:

       (1) Except as provided in (2) below, the percent of the replacement structure
           screened by vegetation as seen from key viewing areas shall not exceed
           the percent of the original structure that was screened by vegetation as
           seen from key viewing areas. Coniferous vegetation shall be replaced
           with coniferous vegetation and deciduous vegetation shall be replaced
           with deciduous vegetation unless the applicant chooses to use all
           coniferous vegetation.

       (2) In situations where the original structure was approved under Scenic Area
           regulations (e.g., Final Interim Guidelines, land use ordinance), the
           percent of the replacement structure screened by vegetation shall comply

                                                                  ch apter 13-N-Non -ConformiOK 2010
                                                                                 on oo
                                        2 6 1 0 0 0 1 0
Page 13-6

                 with any       conditions   of approval    that required   a landowner to preserve
                 existing vegetation and/or plant and maintain new vegetation to screen
                 the original structure as seen from key viewing areas.

            (3) To help determine how much vegetation may be required in (1) and (2)
                above, land use applications shall include all available documentation
                (photographic or otherwise) on the amount and type of vegetation that
                screened the original structure from key viewing areas. At a minimum,
                development review decisions shall include findings that address the
                following:

                 (a) The percent of original structure facing each key viewing area that was
                       screened by coniferous vegetation,          for each   key viewing         area from
                       which the structure was visible.

                 (b) The percent of original structure facing each key viewing area that was
                     screened by deciduous vegetation, for each key viewing area from
                       which the structure was visible.

                 (c) Elevation drawings showing the replacement structure and the amount
                     of coniferous and deciduous vegetation that would screen the
                     structure from key viewing areas in 10 years.

             (4) The height of any new trees shall not be required to exceed 5 feet.

             (5) The time frame for achieving visual subordinance                shall be 10 years or
                 less from the commencement of construction.

             In the SMA, the replacement structure shall comply with the scenic resources
             guidelines regarding landscaping.      These guidelines shail be applied to
             achieve   the applicable scenic standard  (visually subordinate or not visually
             evident) to the maximum extent practicable, provided:

             (1) The     Scenic     Resources     Implementation     Handbook        shall   be   utilized to
                 determine        approvable    species    and   minimum    approvable       sizes    of new
                 trees planted (based          on average growth rates expected for approvable
                 species).

             (2) The height of any new trees shall not be required to exceed 5 feet.

             (3) The time frame for achieving              the applicable   scenic     standard      (visually
                 subordinate or not visually evident) shall be 10 years.

Chapter 13-Nonconforming Uses                                    9 0 1 6 0 6 1 Q
20K, OOK 2010
                                                                                                    Page 13-7

   5. The replacement structure shall be subject to A(1) A(2) and A(3) above                             if it
         would not comply with B(2) and B(3) above.

   6. The original structure shall be considered discontinued if a complete land use
      application for a replacement structure is not submitted within the two year time
         frame.

SECTION      13.080     Change To Nonconforming Uses & Structures

Except as otherwise provided, any change to an existing use or modification to the
exterior of an existing structure shall be subject to review and approval pursuant to this
Ordinance.

A. Expansion of Existing Industrial Uses in the GMA shall be prohibited:

   Conversion of Existing Industrial Uses in the GMA: In the GMA, existing industrial
   uses may convert to less intensive uses. For this section, a less intensive use is a
   commercial, recreation, or residential use with fewer adverse effects upon scenic,
   cultural, natural, and recreation resources.

SECTION 13.090          Mineral Resource Extraction (GMA Only)

In the General Management Area, existing development or production of mineral
resources may continue unless the Gorge Commission determines that the uses
adversely affect the scenic, cultural, natural or recreational resources of the Scenic Area.
These     uses will be considered         discontinued and subject to the land use ordinances
under this Ordinance if:

A. The     mined   land has been         reclaimed    naturally or artificially to a point where         it is
   revegetated        to fifty (50)   percent   of its original   cover   (considering   both   basal    and
   canopy) or has reverted to another beneficial use, such as grazing. Mined land shall
   not include terrain which was merely leveled or cleared of vegetation; or

   The site has not maintained both a required Department of Geology and Mineral
   Industries Permit and County permit; or

   The site has not operated legally within five (5) years prior to the date of adoption of
   the Management Plan.

                                                  9 0 1 6 0 0 1 0             Chapter 13-Non-Conforming Uses
                                                                                                XX, OK   2010
Page 13-8

SECTION      13.100    Mineral Resource Extraction (SMA Only)

Uses involving the exploration, development or production of sand, gravel or crushed rock
in Special Management Areas may continue when:

A. The sand, gravel, or crushed rock is used for construction or maintenance of roads
   used to manage or harvest forest products in Special Management Areas; and

B. A determination by the Forest Service finds that the use does not adversely affect the
    scenic, cultural, natural or recreational resources.

SECTION      13.110    Solid Waste Disposal (SMA Only)

Solid waste disposal sites or sanitary landfills are not allowed in Special Management
Areas.

Chapter 13-Nonconforming Uses                              9 0 1 0   0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                        Page 13-9

SECTION      13.200   Consolidation of Undeveloped Subdivisions

A. Consolidation of Undeveloped Subdivisions

   1. A unit of land shall be consolidated with adjacent lands in the same ownership if
      the subdivision within which the unit of land is located is undeveloped pursuant
      to ORS chapter 92, Undeveloped Subdivisions.

      No portion of a consolidated plat shall be considered a separate parcel solely
      because an existing parce! overlays, and possibly fragments, that consolidated
      subdivision.

      Criterion A shall not be applied to consolidate two or more units of land where
      each     unit of land is developed with a dwelling that qualifies as an existing use.
      One or more undeveloped units of land shall be consolidated with one or more
      developed units of land.

      Lots shall be consolidated through the process outlined in ORS Chapter 92,
      Undeveloped Subdivisions, or through a Replat process as outlined in Chapter 21.

                                           90100010               Chapter 13-Non-Conforming Uses
                                                                                   XX, XOX 2010
              DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

            CHAPTER 14 SCENIC AREA REVIEW

SECTION                                                         PAGE
14,010    PURPOSE                                               14-1
14.020    COMPLETE APPLICATION REQUIRMENTS   FOR A              14-1
          FOR A SCENIC AREA REVIEW
14.100    PROVISIONS FOR ALL NEW DEVELOPMENT                    14-7
14.200    KEY VIEWING AREAS                                     14-9
14.300    SCENIC TRAVEL CORRIDORS                               14-15
14.400    LANDSCAPE SETTINGS                                    14-19
14.500    CULTURAL RESOURCES - GMA                              14-27
14,510    CULTURAL RESOURCES - SMA                              14-47
14.600    NATURAL RESOURCES - GMA                               14-53
14.610    NATURAL RESOURCES - SMA                               14-84
14.700    RECREATION RESOURCES - GMA                            14-95
14.710    RECREATION RESOURCES - SMA                            14-103
14.800    INDIAN TRIBAL TREATY RIGHTS AND                       14-109
          CONSULTATION - GMA
14.810    INDIAN TRIBAL TREATY RIGHTS AND                       14-112
          CONSULTATION - SMA

                                20100610     Chapter 14-Scenic Area Review
                                                                                             Page 14-1

                           CHAPTER 14       SCENIC AREA REVIEW

SECTION     14.010     Purpose

The purpose of the Scenic Area Review is to preserve, protect and enhance the scenic,
natural, cultural and recreational values of the Gorge and to assure that development
occurs in a manner which is compatible with its unique qualities.

SECTION 14.020         Complete Application Submittal Requirements for a Scenic
                       Area Review                   .

A. Application Form Requirements

   1.   Project applicant's name and address.

   2.   Property owner's name and address if different than 1 above.

   3. Location       of the proposed   use, including township,    range, section, and tax lot
        number.

   4. A written description of the proposed use, including details on the height,
      dimensions, exterior color(s), and construction materials of proposed structures.

   5. A list of Key Viewing Areas that are visible from the proposed development site
       and from which the proposed use would be visible.

   6.   Legal parcel documentation.

   7.   Legal structure documentation.           Evidence   that   a   structure     was     lawfully
        established shall include the following:

        a. Wasco County Assessor records verifying the structure was built prior to
           4 September 1974; or

        b. Any one of the following:

           (1) a valid Oregon State Building Codes permit signed by the Wasco County
               Planning Department between 4 September 1974 and 17 November 1986;
               or

           (2) a valid Wasco Sherman Health Department septic permit before 1 January
               1985; or

           (3) a valid Land Use Compatibility Statement signed by the Wasco                  County

                                                                   Chapter 14-Application Requirements
                                                                                      January 10, 2006
                                        2 0 i 0 0 0 1 0
Page 14-2

                   Planning Department between 1 January 1985 and 17 November 1986, or
               (4) National Scenic Area approval by either the Columbia River Gorge
                   Commission, the USDA Forest Service, or the Wasco County Planning
                   Department, after 17 November 1986, and a valid Oregon State Building
                   Codes permit signed by the Wasco County Planning Department.

            Signatures of the owners or authorized representatives.

B. Site Plan
    A       complete    site   plan   shall   be   submitted   for   all   new     development,      except   for
    buildings smaller than 60 square feet in area and less than or equal to 10 feet in
    height, as measured at the roof peak.

    The site plan shall be prepared at a scale of 1" = 200’ or a scale providing greater
    detail which clearly indicates the following information:

    ALL DEVELOPMENT

     1.     Boundaries, dimensions, and size of the subject parcel.

    2.      Location, size, and shape, of all existing and proposed buildings and structures
            on the subject parcel.

            Access:   Indicate all existing and proposed             points of ingress and egress and
            whether they are public or private.

            Location,   dimensions      and   method    of improvement           of all roads,   access drives,
            trails, and parking areas with individual parking spaces and internal circulation
            patterns.

            Access drives shall be constructed to a minimum of twelve (12) feet in width and
            not exceed a grade of twelve (12) percent with turnouts provided at a minimum
            of every five hundred (500) feet.

            Location of existing and proposed services, including wells or other water
            supplies, sewage disposal systems, telephone and power poles and lines.
            Telephone and power supply systems shall be underground whenever practical.

            The location of the pond, stream, tank or sump with storage of not less than
            1,000 galions if the well or water system is not capable of delivering twenty (20)
            gallons per minute.

            The location of a standpipe (water spigot) a minimum of fifty (50) feet from each
            flammable structure if the development includes a plumbed water system.

            Location, size and dimension of all yards and setbacks and all spaces between
Chapter 14-Application Requirements
January 10, 2006                                                           2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
                                                                                               Page 14-3

        buildings.
   9.   Lighting: General nature and location (not including interior building lighting).

   10.Outdoor storage and activities, if permitted in the zone, showing type, location
      and height of screening devices, including trash and recycling storage locations
      and their pick up locations.

   41.Location     and   depth   of all proposed   grading,   filling, ditching    and    excavating
        unless a grading pfan is required by F below.

   12.North arrow and map scale.

   13. Significant terrain features and landforms.

   14. Bodies of water and watercourses.

   NON RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

   15.Signs:     Locations, size, height, material and method of illumination.

   16.Loading:     Location, dimensions, internal circulation and access from public right-
      of-way.

   17. General locations for all temporary facilities associated with a commercial
       event.

C. Material Samples      - As part of a complete application, material samples for all
   exterior surfaces of proposed structures shall be submitted. Material samples may
   be paint samples, stain samples, a piece of the physical construction material,
   brochures, manufactures specifications, or other material or information that is
   adequate to represent the final exterior appearance. Samples shall be required for
   all exterior parts of proposed structure(s) including but not limited to:

   1.   Main

   2.   Trim or Secondary

   3.   Roof.   The roof shall be constructed of fire resistant material.

   4. Window frames, sills, and sashes

   §.   Doors, including garage doors, and

   6.   Hooding for exterior lighting

D. Landscaping Plan - A detailed plan for landscaping which shall clearly illustrate:

                                                                    Chapter 14-Application Requirements
                                                                                         January 10, 2006
                                        2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
Page 14-4

     (The landscaping plan may be included on the site plan if there is adequate detail to
     show all of the required information.)

     4. The location, height and species of existing trees and vegetation. Indicate which
        are proposed to be removed.         The landscaping plan shall include detailed
        information to the level of individual trees and groupings of vegetation for the
        proposed development area and all topographically visible corridors between the
        proposed development area and Key Viewing Areas.                 The landscaping
        information for the remainder of the property may be generalized.

     2. The location, height and species of individually proposed trees and vegetation
            groupings.

     3.     Indicate the fifty (50) foot fuel break surrounding each new building and how this
            area will meet hazardous fuels reduction standards.

            Irrigated or fire resistant vegetation may be planted within the fuei break. This
            could include green lawns and low shrubs (less than 24 inches in height). . Trees
            should be spaced with greater than fifteen (15) feet between the crowns and
            pruned to remove dead and low [less than eight (8) feet] branches. Accumulated
            leaves, needles, and other dead vegetation shall be removed from beneath
            trees.

     4.     The location of automatic sprinkler systems or other irrigation        provisions   to
            ensure survival of landscape planting for screening purposes.

E.   Elevation       Drawing   - Elevation drawings   shall show the appearance   of all sides of
     proposed structures and shail include natural grade, finished grade, and the
     geometrical exterior of at least the length and width of structures as seen from a
     horizontal view. Elevation drawings shall be drawn to scale.

F.   Grading Plan

     1. All applications for structural development, except for trails in the SMA, involving
        more than 100 cubic yards of grading with slopes greater than 10 percent shall
            include a grading plan.

     2. All proposed structural development involving more than 200 cubic yards of
        grading on sites visible from Key Viewing Areas shall include a grading plan

     3. All grading plans shall include the following:

            a. Amap of the site, prepared at a scale of 1 inch equals 200 feet (1:2,400) or a
               scale providing greater detail, with contour intervals of at least 5 feet,
               including:

Chapter 14-Appilcation Requirements
                                                              20100010
January 10, 2006
                                                                                                 Page 14-5

   (1) Natural and finished grades.

   (2) Location of      all   areas   to    be     graded,    with   cut   banks     and    fill slopes
       delineated.

   (3) Estimated dimensions of graded areas.

b. A narrative description (may be submitted on the grading plan site map and
   accompanying drawings) of the proposed grading activity, including:

   (1)   Its purpose.

   (2)   An estimate of the total volume of material to be moved.

   (3)   The height of all cut banks and fill slopes.

   (4)   Provisions to be used for compactions, drainage, and stabilization of
         graded areas. (Preparation of this information by a licensed engineer oor
         engineering geologist is recommended.)

   (5)   A description of all plant materials used to revegetate exposed slopes
         and banks, including the species, number, size, and location of plants,
         and a description of irrigation provisions or other measures necessary to
         ensure the survival of plantings.

   (6)   A description of any              other    interim    or    permanent      erosion      control
         measures to be used.

                                           90100010                   Chapter 14-Application Requirements
                                                                                           January 10, 2006
Page 14-6

Chapter 14-Application Requirements
January 10, 2006
                                                                                                Page 14-7

SECTION    14.100    Provisions For All New Development (GMA & SMA)

A. All new development, except uses allowed through the expedited review process,
   shall be reviewed under the applicable sections of Key Viewing Areas, Scenic Travel
   Corridors, Landscape        Settings,   Natural    Resources,      Cultural     Resources,        and
   Recreation Resources.

SITING

B. New buildings and roads shall be sited and designed to retain the existing
   topography and to minimize grading activities to the maximum extent practicable.

DESIGN/COLOR

C. New buildings shall be compatible with the general scale (height, dimensions and
   overall mass) of existing nearby development. Expansion of existing development
   shall comply with this guideline to the maximum extent practicable.

D. Unless expressly exempted by other provisions, colors of all exterior surfaces of
   structures on sites not visible from Key Viewing Areas shall be earth-tones found at
   the specific site or in the surrounding landscape.     The specific colors or list of
   acceptable colors shall be included as a condition of approval.          The Scenic
   Resources Implementation Handbook will include a recommended palette of colors. .

E. Additions to existing buildings smaller in total square area than the existing building
   may be the same color as the existing building. Additions larger than the existing
   building shall be of dark earth-tone colors found at the specific site or in the
   surrounding landscape.      The specific colors or list of acceptable colors shall be
   included as a condition of approval.          The Scenic Resources implementation
   Handbook will include a recommended      palette of colors.

F. Outdoor lighting shall be directed downward, sited, limited in intensity, shielded and
   hooded in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent
   properties, roadways, and the Columbia River as well as preventing the lighting from
   being highly visible from Key Viewing Areas and from noticeably contrasting with the
   surrounding landscape setting. Shielding and hooding materials shall be composed
   of nonreflective opaque materials. There shall be no visual pollution due to the
   siting or brilliance, nor shall it constitute a hazard for traffic.

LANDSCAPING

G. All ground disturbance as a result of site development shall be revegetated no later
   than the next planting season (Oct-April) with native species. The property owners
   and their successors in interest shall be responsible for survival of planted
   vegetation, and replacement of such vegetation that does not survive.

                                    9 0 i 6 0 0 1 0         Chapter 14-Provisions For All New Development
                                                                                           XX, XXXKX 2010
Page 14-8

H. Except as is necessary for site development or fire safety purposes, the existing tree
    cover screening the development area on the subject parcel from Key Viewing
    Areas and trees that provide a back drop on the subject parcel which help the
    development area achieve visual subordinance, shall be retained.         Additionally,
    unless allowed to be removed as part of the review use, all trees and vegetation
    within buffer zones for wetlands, streams, lakes, ponds and riparian areas shall be
    retained in their natural condition. Any of these trees or other trees required to be
    planted as a condition of approval that die for any reason shall be replaced by the
    current property owner or successors in interest no later than the next planting
    season (Oct-April) after their death with trees of the same species or from the list in
    the landscape setting for the property.

    To ensure survival,          new    trees   and   replacement   trees   shall   meet   the   following
    requirements

    1. All trees shall be at least 4 feet tall at planting, well branched, and formed.

    2.      Each tree shall be braced with 3 guy wires and protected from livestock and
            wildlife.   The guy wires need to be removed after two winters.

    3. The trees must be irrigated until they are well established.

    4. Trees that die or are damaged shall be replaced with trees that meet the planting
       requirements above.

Chapter 14-Provisions For All New Development
                                                            20100010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                               Page 14-9

SECTION 14.200 Key Viewing Areas

The following is required for all development that occurs on parcels/lots topographically
visible from Key Viewing Areas.

A. Each development and land use shall be visually subordinate to its setting in the
   GMA and meet the required scenic standard (visually subordinate or visually not
   evident) in the SMA as seen from Key Viewing Areas. The extent and type of
   conditions applied to a proposed development to achieve visual subordinance shall
   be proportionate to its potential visual impacts as seen from Key Viewing Areas.

   1.   Decisions shall include written findings addressing           the      factors    influencing
        potential visual impact including but not limited to:

        a. The number of Key Viewing Areas it is visible from;

        b. The distance from the building site to the Key Viewing Areas it is visible from;

        c. The linear distance along the Key Viewing Areas from which the building site
           is visible (for linear Key Viewing Areas, such as roads and the Columbia
           River);

        d. The difference in elevation between the building site and Key Viewing Areas;

        e.   The nature and extent of topographic and vegetative back screening behind
             the building site as seen from Key Viewing Areas;

        f.   The amount of area of the building site exposed to Key Viewing Areas; and

        g    The degree of existing vegetation providing screening.

   2.   Conditions may     be applied to various elements of proposed developments to
        ensure they are visually subordinate to their setting in the GMA              and meet the
        required scenic standard (visually subordinate or visually not evident) in the SMA
        as seen from key viewing areas, including but not limited to:

        a. siting (location of development on the subject property, building orientation,
             and other elements);

        c. design (color, reflectivity, size, shape, height, architectural and design           details
           and other elements); and

        d. new landscaping.

                                             90100010                       Chapter 14-Key Viewing Areas
                                                                                           XX, XXXXK 2010
Page 44-10

SITING

    New development shall be sited to achieve visual subordinance from Key Viewing
    Areas, unless the siting would place such development in a buffer specified for
    protection of wetlands, riparian corridors, endemic and listed plants, sensitive wildlife
    sites or conflict with standards           to protect cultural    resources.     In such      situations,
    development shall comply with this standard to the maximum                           extent practicable.
    (GMA Only)

    New development shall be sited to achieve visual subordinance utilizing existing
    topography, and/or existing vegetation as needed in the GMA and meet the required
    scenic standard (visually subordinate or visually not evident) in the SMA from Key
    Viewing Areas.

    Driveways and buildings shall be designed and sited to minimize visibility of cut
    banks and fill slopes from Key Viewing Areas.

    The silhouette of new buildings shall remain below the skyline of a bluff, cliff or ridge
    as seen from Key Viewing Areas. A variance in the General Management Area may
    be granted according to Chapter 6 if application of the guidelines would leave the
    owner without a reasonable economic use. The variance shall be the minimum
    necessary to allow the use and may be applied only after all reasonable efforts to
    modify the design, building height and site to comply with the criteria have been
    made.

    An alteration to a building built prior to November 17, 1986, which already protrudes
    above the skyline of a bluff, cliff or ridge as seen from a Key Viewing Area, may
    itself protrude above the skyline if:

     4. The altered building, through use of color, landscaping and/or other mitigation
         measures, contrasts less with its setting than before the alteration; and

    2. There is no practicable            alternative    means       of altering   the     building   without
       increasing the protrusion.

    Except for water-dependent development and for water-related recreation
    development, development shall be set back 100 feet from the ordinary high water
    mark of the Columbia          River below Bonneville Dam,           and 100 feet from the normal
    pool elevation of the Columbia River above Bonneville Dam, uniess the setback
    would render a property unbuildable. In such cases, variances to this guideline may
    be authorized according to Chapter 6 of this Ordinance. In the SMA the setbacks
    described above shall be 200 feet.

H. New buildings shail not be permitted on lands visible from Key Viewing Areas with
    slopes in excess          of 30 percent.      Variances to this guideline may             be authorized
Chapter 4 Key Viewing Areas                                    9 0 1 6 6 0 1 0
                                                                                              Page 14-11

     according to Chapter 6 of this Ordinance if its application would render a property
     unbuildable. In determining the slope, the average percent slope of the proposed
     building site shall be utilized.

Design/Color

1.   Unless expressly exempted by other provisions in this chapter, colors of all exterior
     surfaces of structures visible from Key Viewing Areas shall be dark earth-tones
     found at the specific site or in the surrounding landscape. The specific colors or list
     of acceptable colors shall be included as a condition of approval. The Scenic
     Resources Implementation Handbook will include a recommended palette of colors.

J.   The exterior of buildings in the GMA and structures in the SMA on lands seen from
     Key Viewing Areas shall be composed            of nonreflective materials or materials with
     low reflectivity, unless the structure would be fully screened from all key viewing
     areas by existing topographic features. The Scenic Resources Implementation
     Handbook       will include a list of recommended        exterior materials. These
     recommended materials and other materials      may   be deemed    consistent with this
     criterion, including those where the specific application meets recommended
     thresholds in the “Visibility and Reflectivity Matrices” in the Implementation
     Handbook (once they are created). Continuous surfaces of glass unscreened from
     Key Viewing Areas shall be limited to ensure visual subordinance. Recommended
     square footage limitations for such surfaces will be provided for guidance in the
     Implementation Handbook.

Landscaping

K. The following criteria shall apply to new landscaping used to screen development
   from Key Viewing Areas:

     4.   New landscaping (including new earth berms) shall be required only when
          application of all other available guidelines in this chapter is not sufficient to
          make the development visually subordinate in the GMA and meet the required
          scenic standard (visually subordinate or visually not evident) in the SMA from
          Key Viewing Areas.      Alternate sites shall be considered prior to using new
          landscaping to achieve visual subordinanice. Development shall be sited to avoid
          the need for new landscaping wherever possible.

     2.   If mew landscaping is required to make a proposed development visually
          subordinate in the GMA and meet the required scenic standard (visually
          subordinate or visually not evident) in the SMA from Key Viewing Areas, existing
          on-site vegetative screening and other visibility factors shail be analyzed to
          determine the extent of new landscaping, and the size of new trees needed to
          achieve the standard. Any vegetation planted pursuant to this criterion shall be
          sized   to   provide   sufficient   screening   to   make   the   development        visually
          subordinate within five years or less from the commencement of construction.
                                                                            Chapter 14-Key Viewing Areas
                                                  90190010                                XX, 1000-2019
Page 14-12

    3.    Unless as specified otherwise by provisions in this chapter, landscaping shall be
          installed as soon as practicable, and prior to project completion.

    4.   Conditions regarding new landscaping or retention of existing vegetation for new
         developments shail meet both scenic guidelines and the fuel break guidelines
         listed in the fire protection standards for each zone.

MISCELLANEOUS

L. Determination of potential visual effects and compliance with visual subordinance
   policies shall include consideration of the cumulative effects of proposed
   developments.

  . New main lines on lands visible from Key Viewing Areas for the transmission of
    electricity, gas, oil, other fuels, or communications, except for connections to
    individual users or small clusters of individual users, shall be built in existing
    transmission corridors unless it can be demonstrated that use of existing corridors is
   ‘not practicable.       Such new lines shail be underground as a   first preference unless it
    can be demonstrated to be impracticable.

    New communication facilities (antennae, dishes, etc.) on lands visible from Key
    Viewing Areas, which require an open and unobstructed site shall be built upon
    existing facilities unless it can be demonstrated that use of existing facilities is not
    practicable.

  . New      communications     facilities may protrude above   a skyline visible from a Key
    Viewing Area only upon demonstration that:

    1. The facility is necessary for public service;

    2. The break in the skyline is seen only in the background; and

    3. The break in the skyline is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

    Overpasses, safety and directional signs and other road and highway facilities may
    protrude above a skyline visible from a Key Viewing Area only upon a demonstration
    that:

    1. The facility is necessary for public service;

    2. The break in the skyline is the minimum necessary to provide the service.

    In addition to all applicable criteria above, all Mineral and Aggregate related uses on
    lands visible from Key Viewing Areas shall meet all applicable criteria in Chapter 10.

Chapter 14-Key Viewing Areas                                9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXAK 2010
                                                                                                     Page 14-13

R. In addition to the GMA standards, the following will be required in the SMA.

   1.   In all landscape     settings,     scenic    standards     in Table   below    shall    be   met    by
        blending new development with the adjacent natural landscape elements rather
        than with existing development.

                                 REQUIRED SMA SCENIC STANDARDS

          LANDSCAPE SETTING                   LAND USE                  SCENIC STANDARD
                                            DESIGNATION
          Coniferous Woodland,           Forest (National Forest         Not Visually Evident
           Qak-Pine Woodland              Lands), Open Space
            River Bottomiands                 Open Space                 Not Visually Evident

              Gorge Walls,           Forest, Agriculture, Public
         Canyonlands, Wildiands      Recreation, Open Space              Not Visually Evident

          Coniferous Woodland,             Forest, Agriculture,         Visually Subordinate
           Oak-Pine Woodiand               Residential, Public
                                               Recreation

               Residential                     Residential              Visually Subordinate

                 Pastoral            Forest, Agriculture, Public
                                     Recreation, Open Space             Visually Subordinate

            River Bottomlands        Forest, Agriculture, Public        Visually Subordinate
                                             Recreation

   2. Structure height shall remain below the average tree canopy height of the natural
      vegetation adjacent to the structure, except if it has been demonstrated that
      meeting this criterion is not feasible considering the function of the structure.

        Seasonal lighting displays shall be permitted on a temporary basis, not to exceed
        3 months.

        Proposed developments or land uses shall be sited to achieve the applicable
        scenic standard. Development shall be designed to fit the natural topography, to
        take advantage of landform and vegetation screening, and to minimize visible
        grading or other modifications of landforms, vegetation cover, and natural
        characteristics. When screening of development is needed to meet the scenic
        standard from key viewing areas, use of existing topography and vegetation shall
        be given priority over other means of achieving the scenic standard such as
        planting new vegetation or using artificial berms.

§. The following are not required to meet scenic standards:

                                                              9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0    Chapter 14-Key Viewing Areas
                                                                                                XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-14

    4.   Uses and activities in Developed Settings as specified in 14.400(J), Landscape
         Settings.

    2.   Rehabilitation        of or modification   of significant historic structures,   carried out in
         compliance      with the   National  Register of Historic    Places     guidelines
         (SMAYNational Parks Service regulations for such structures (GMA).          To be
         eligible for such exemption, the structure must be included in or eligible for the
         National Register of Historic Places or be in the process of applying for a
         determination of significance pursuant to such regulations. Rehabilitation of or
         modifications to structures meeting this guideline shail be consistent with
         Nationa! Park Service regulations for such structures.

    3. Shoreline developments, uses and activities on the mainstream of the Columbia
       River that are adjoining Urban Areas.

Chapter 14-Key Viewing Areas                                2   0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, AXXK 2010
                                                                                         Page 14-15

SECTION    14.300   Scenic Travel Corridors (GMA & SMA)

A. Several state and federal highways, renowned as highly scenic travel and recreation
   corridors, traverse the National Scenic Area.        These travelways parallel the
   Columbia River and several of its major tributaries. Among these well-known roads
   are the Historic Columbia River Highway and Interstate 84 (recently designated as
   one of the most scenic highways in America by Rand McNally).

   The "Scenic Travel Corridors” program in the Management Plan acknowledges the
   importance of these travelways to the National Scenic Area. It provides measures
   to protect and enhance the scenic qualities of the landscapes within the foregrounds
   of these roads. Many of the standards included in this section require implementing
   actions from the state agencies charged with managing these scenic byways, in
   coordination with local governments.

B. The Historic Columbia River Highway and Interstate 84 are designated as Scenic
   Travel Corridors.    Development along these corridors shall be subject to the
   following standards:

   1.   For the purposes of implementing this section, the foreground of a Scenic Travel
        Corridor shall include those lands within one-quarter mile of the edge of
        pavement of the Scenic Travel Corridor roadway.

   2. All new buildings and alterations to existing buildings shall be set back at least
      100 feet from the edge of pavement of the Scenic Travel Corridor roadway. A
        variance to this setback requirement may be granted pursuant to Chapter 6.              All
        new parking lots and expansions of existing parking lots shall be set back at
        least 100 feet from the edge of pavement of the Scenic Travel Corridor roadway,
        to the maximum extent practicable.

   3. Additions to existing buildings or expansion of existing parking lots located within
      100 feet of the edge of pavement of a Scenic Travel Corridor roadway shall
      comply with standard 2 of this subsection to the maximum extent practicable.

   4. All proposed vegetation management projects in public rights-of-way to provide
      or improve views shall include the following:

        a. An evaluation of potential visual impacts of the proposed project as seen
           from any Key Viewing Area;

        b. An inventory of any rare plants, special wildlife habitat, wetlands or riparian
           areas on the project site. If such resources are determined to be present, the
           project shall comply with applicable Management Plan guidelines to protect
           the resources.

   5. When evaluating which locations to consider undergrounding of signai wires or

                                            9 0 1 0 0 C 1 0      Chapter 14-Scenic Travel Corridors
                                                                                     XX, XXXXK 2010
Page 14-16

         powerlines, railroads and utility companies shall prioritize those areas specifically
         recommended          as extreme or high priorities for undergrounding   in the Columbia
         River Gorge National Scenic Area Corridor Visual Inventory, prepared in April,
         1990.

    6.   New production and/or development of mineral resources proposed within one-
         quarter mile of the edge of pavement of a Scenic Travel Corridor may be allowed
         upon a demonstration that full visual screening of the site from the Scenic Travel
         Corridor can be achieved by use of existing topographic features or existing
         vegetation designed to be retained through the planned duration of the proposed
         project. An exception to this may be granted if planting of new vegetation in the
         vicinity of the access      road to the mining   area would achieve full screening.       !f
         existing vegetation is partly or fully employed to achieve visual screening, over
         75 percent of the tree canopy area shall be coniferous species providing
         adequate winter screening. Mining and associated primary processing of mineral
         resources is prohibited within 100 feet of a Scenic Travel Corridor, as measured
         from the edge of pavement, except for access roads. An interim time period to
         achieve compliance with full screening requirements shall be established prior to
         approval. The interim time period shall be based on site-specific topographic
         and visual conditions, but shall not exceed one year beyond the date of approval.
         Quarrying activity occurring prior to achieving. compliance with full screening
         requirements shall be limited to activities necessary to provide such screening
         (creation of berms, etc.).

    7.   Expansion of existing quarries may be allowed pursuant to Section 10.300(B)(2).
         Compliance with visual subordinance requirements shall be achieved within
         timeframes specified in Section 10.300(B)(3). (GMA Only)

C. In the SMA the following additional criteria shall. to development within the
   immediate foregrounds of Key Viewing Areas. Immediate foregrounds are defined
   as within the developed prism of a road or trail KVA or within the boundary of the
   developed area.

     1. The proposed development shall be designed and sited to meet the applicable
        scenic standard from the foreground of the subject KVA.        If the development
        cannot meet the standard, findings must be made documenting why the project
        cannot meet the requirements in the previous section and why it cannot be
        redesigned or wholly or partly relocated to meet the scenic standard.

    2.   Findings must evaluate the following:

         a.     The limiting factors to meeting the required scenic standard and/or applicable
                guidelines from the previous section,

         b.     Reduction in project size;

Chapter 14-Scenic Travel Corridors                             2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                        Page 14-17

     c.   Options for alternative sites for all or part of the project, considering parcel
          configuration and on-site topographic or vegetative screening;

     d. Options     for   design   changes    including   changing    the     design     shape,
          configuration, color, height, or texture in order to meet the scenic standard.

3.   Form, line, color, texture, and design of a proposed development shall be
     evaluated to ensure that the development blends with its setting as seen from
     the foreground of key viewing areas: ”

     a.   Form and Line-Design of the development shal! minimize changes to the form
          of the natural landscape. Development shall borrow form and line from the
          landscape setting and blend with the form and line of the landscape setting.
          Design of the development shall avoid contrasting form and line that
          unnecessarily call attention to the development.

     b. Color-Color shall be found in the project’s surrounding landscape setting.
        Colors shall be chosen and repeated as needed to provide unity to the whole
        design.

     c.   Texture-Textures borrowed from the landscape setting shall be emphasized
          in the design of structures. Landscape textures are generally rough, irregular,
          and complex rather than smooth, regular, and uniform.

     d.   Design-Design solutions shall be compatible with the natural scenic quality of
          the Gorge. Building materials shall be natural or natural appearing. Building
          materials such as concrete, steel, aluminum, or plastic shall use form, line
          color and ‘texture to harmonize with the natural environment. Design shall
          balance all design elements into a harmonious whole, using repetition of
          elements and blending of elements as necessary.

4.   Screening from key viewing areas shall be encouraged for existing and required
     for new road maintenance, warehouse, and stockpile areas.              :

                                      20100010
                                                                 Chapter 14-Scenic Travel Corridors
                                                                                     XX, YOK 2010
Page 14-18

Chapter 14-Scenic Travel Corridors   9 0 1 6 0 6 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                  Page 14-19

SECTION       14.400     Landscape Settings(GMA & SMA)

Landscape settings are the combination of land uses, landforms and vegetation
patterns which distinguish an area in appearance and character from other portions of
the National Scenic Area.

Landscape      Setting    goals,   policies and   guidelines,   as defined    and    identified     in the
Management       Plan,    represent a long-term    vision of scenic protection       as expressed         in
the landscape.    The following design standards are provided to ensure that new
developments are compatible with and maintain the character of their settings. These
standards are not intended to limit imagination, variety or creative design solutions.

The Scenic Resources Implementation Handbook shall include recommended species
for each landscape setting and minimum recommended sizes of new trees planted
(based on average growth rates expected for recommended species).

A.   Pastoral Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     1. Accessory structures, outbuildings and accessways shall be clustered together
        as much as possible, particularly towards the edges of existing meadows,
        pastures and farm fields.

     2.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas, the following standards
          shall be employed to achieve visual subordinance for new development and
          expansion of existing development:

          a. Vegetative landscaping shall, where feasible, retain the open                character of
             existing pastures and fields.

          b. At least half of any trees. planted      for screening    purposes     shall be species
             native to the setting or commonly found in the area.             Such species include
             fruit trees, Douglas fir, Lombardy poplar (usually in rows), Oregon white oak,
             bigleaf maple, and black locust (primarily in the eastern Gorge).

          c. At least one-quarter of any trees planted for screening shall be coniferous for
             winter screening.

     SMA Only

     3.   Pastoral areas shall retain the overall appearance          of an agricultural landscape.
          The use of plant species in rows as commonly found in the landscape setting is
          encouraged. The use of plant species common to the landscape setting shall be
          encouraged.

                                                      9 0 1 6 0 G 1 0        Chapter 14-Landscape Settings
                                                                                            XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-20

B. Coniferous Woodland Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     4. Structure height shall remain below the forest canopy level.

     2.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas, the following standards
          shall be employed to achieve visual subordinance for new development and
          expansion of existing development:

          a.   At least half of any trees   planted   for screening   purposes   shall be species
               native to the setting. Such species include: Douglas fir, grand fir, western
               red cedar, western hemlock, bigleaf maple, red alder, ponderosa pine and
               Oregon white oak, and various native willows (for riparian areas).

          b. At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be coniferous
             to provide winter screening.

     SMA Only
     3. Woodlands areas shall retain the overall appearance of a woodland landscape.
        New developments and land uses shall retain the overall visual character of the
        natural appearance of the Coniferous Woodland landscape.

          a.   Use of plant species native to the landscape setting shall be encouraged.
               Where non-native plants are used, they shall have native appearing
               characteristics.

          b.   Buildings shall be encouraged to have a vertical overall appearance.

C.   Oak-Pine Woodland Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     1.   Structure height shall remain below the tree canopy level in wooded portions of
          this setting.

     2.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas, the following standards
          shall be employed to achieve visual subordinance for new development and
          expansion of existing development.

          a. At least half of any tree species planted for screening purposes shall be
             species native to the setting. Such species include:    Oregon white oak,
             ponderosa pine, Douglas fir.

Chapter 14-Landscape Settings                  .             2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                         Page 14-21

          b. At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be coniferous
             to provide winter screening.

          For treeless portions or portions with scattered tree cover:

          c. Structures shall be sited on portions of the property which provide maximum
             screening from Key Viewing Areas utilizing existing topographic features.

          d. Patterns of plantings for screening vegetation shail be in character with the
             surroundings. Residences in grassy, open areas or savannahs shall be partly
             screened with trees in small groupings and openings between groupings.

          e. Accessory structures, outbuildings and accessways shall be clustered
             together as much as possible, particularly towards the edges of existing
               meadows, pastures and farm fields.

     SMA Only

     3. Woodland areas should retain the overall appearance of a woodland landscape.
         New developments and land uses shall retain the overall visual character of the
        natural appearance of the Oak/Pine Woodland landscape.

          a.   Use of plant species native to the landscape setting shall be encouraged.
               Where non-native plants are used, they shall have native appearing
               characteristics.

          b. Buildings shall be encouraged to have horizontal overall appearance.

D.   Grassland Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     4. Accessory structures, outbuildings and accessways shall be clustered together
        as much as possible. Exceptions to this criterion, where necessary for farming
        operations, are permitted.

     2.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas, the following standard
          shall be employed to achieve visual subordinance standards for new
          development and       expansion of existing development:

          a.   Structures shall be sited on portions of the property which provide maximum
               screening from Key Viewing Areas utilizing existing topographic features.

          b. Lower structures which emphasize horizontal lines and blend with                  this
             sweeping landscape shall be encouraged rather than very tall structures.

                                              2 0 1 0 0 0   1 0       Chapter 14-Landscape Settings
                                                                                     XX, AOKK 2010
Page 14-22

          c. Planting of trees for screening shall not be extensive, in character with the
             openness of this setting. Where utilized, screening vegetation shall either tie
             in with near-by riparian vegetation in seasonal drainages or emulate
               windrows.    At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be
               species native to the setting or commonly found in the area. Such species
               include: Oregon white oak, Lombardy poplar, black locust, black cottonwood
               (wet locations), Russian olive and ponderosa pine.

E.   Rural Residential Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     4.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas, and not exempt from
          visual subordinance standards (see J below), the following standards              shall be
          employed to achieve visual subordinance for new development:

          a.   At least half of any trees      planted for screening   purposes    shall be species
               native to the setting or commonly found in the area.

          b. At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be coniferous
             to provide winter screening.

F.   Rural  Residential/Pastoral,           Coniferous   Woodland      or   Oak-Pine      Woodland
     Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     4.   New development in this setting shall meet the design standards described for
          both the Rural Residential setting and the more rural setting with which it is
          combined (either Pastoral, Coniferous Woodland, or Oak-Pine Woodland),
          unless it can be demonstrated that compliance with the guidelines for the more
          rural setting is impracticable.

     2.   In the event      of a possible     conflict between   the two sets     of standards,   the
          standards for the more rural setting (Coniferous Woodland, Pastoral, or Oak-
          Pine Woodland) shall apply, unless it can be demonstrated that application of
          such standards would not be practicable.

G. Residential Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     4.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas and not exempt from

won
Chapter 14-Landscape Settings
                                                                 20100010
                                                                                                      Page 14-23

        visual subordinance standards (see J below), the following standards shail be
        employed to achieve visual subordinance for new development:

        a.   Structures’ exteriors shall be non-reflective unless fully screened from Key
             Viewing Areas with existing vegetation and/or topography.

        b. At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be species
           native to the setting or commonly found in the area.

        c. At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be coniferous
           to provide winter screening.                                      .

   SMA Only

   2. The Residential setting is characterized by concentrations of dwellings.

        a.   Use   of plant species     native to the landscape           setting shall be encouraged.
             Where non-native         plants    are    used,   they     shall   have     native    appearing
             characteristics.

        b. At Rowena Dell, new            buildings     shall have      a rustic appearance          and    use
           natural materials.

H. River Bottomlands Landscape Setting

   GMA Only

   4.   In portions of this setting visible from Key Viewing Areas, the following standards
        shall be employed to achieve visual subordinance for new development and
        expansion of existing development:

        a. At least half of any trees planted for screening purposes shall be species
           native to the River Bottomland setting. Public recreation developments are
             encouraged    to   maximize       the    percentage      of planted    screening      vegetation
             native to this setting. Such native species include: black cottonwood, bigleaf
             maple, red alder, Oregon white ash, Douglas fir, western red cedar and
             western hemlock (west Gorge) and various native willow species.

        b. At least one-quarter of any trees planted for screening                      purposes shall be
           coniferous for winter screening.

   SMA Only
   2.   River bottomlands shall retain the overall visual character of a floodplain and
        associated islands:

                                                          2 0 1 0 0 CG 1 ()        Chapter 14-Landscape Settings
                                                                                                  XX, 00K 2010
Page 14-24

          a. Buildings shall have an overall horizontal appearance in areas with little tree
               cover.

          b.    Use   of plant species     native to the landscape      setting shall be encouraged.
               Where       non-native    plants   are   used,    they   shall     have   native-appearing
               characteristics.

|.   Gorge Walls, Canyonlands and Wildlands Landscape Setting

     GMA Only

     4.   New development and expansion of existing development shall be screened so
          as to not be seen from Key Viewing Areas to the maximum extent practicable.

     2. All trees planted to screen permitted development and uses from Key Viewing
          Areas shall be native to the area.

     3. All buildings shall be limited in height to 1 1/2 stories.

     4, The exteriors of structures shall be non-reflective.

     5. Signage shall be limited to natural materials such as wood or stone, and natural
        colors (GMA only) or earth-tone colors (SMA or GMA), unless public safety
          concerns or federal or state highway standards require otherwise.

     SMA Only
     6.   New developments and land uses shall retain the overall visual character of the
          natural appearing landscape:

          a.    Structures, including signs, shall have a rustic appearance, use non-reflective
                materials, have low contrast with          the   surrounding      landscape,   and   be   of
                Cascadian architectural style.

          b. Temporary roads must be promptly closed and revegetated.

          c.    New utilities must be below ground surface, where feasible.

          d. Use of plant species non-native to the Columbia                    River Gorge shall not be
                allowed.

Chapter 14-Landscape Settings                                    2 0 1 ot 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                          Page 14-25

J.   Special Settings

     GMA Only

     1. Two landscape settings in Wasco County are considered developed settings:
        Rural Residential and Residential. Of all General Management Area lands in
        these two settings, two particular areas which are not visually sensitive have
        been identified. New development in these settings shall be compatible with the
        setting,   but not necessarily visually subordinate.   New     developments      in these
        settings are exempt from the color and siting guidelines in the Key Viewing Areas
        section of this chapter. These areas are:

        a.   Murray's Addition subdivision, The Dalles (Residential)

        b. Two small areas south of The Dalles in Sections 9 and 10, Township                   1N,
           Range 13E (Residential).

     2. The Gorge Discovery Center site at Crates Point is designated River Bottom
        lands. The scope of development planned for the site may not make visual
        subordination possible.  The Discovery Center site shall be designed and
        developed to be visually subordinate from Key Viewing Areas and compatible
        with its landscape setting to the maximum extent possible.

                                               20160010                Chapter 14-Landscape Settings
                                                                                      XX, XXX 2010
Page 14-26

Chapter 14-Landscape   Settings   2 6 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                       Page 14-27

Section 14.500       Cultural Resources (GMA Only)

A. Purpose:

   1.   Protect and enhance cultural resources.

   2.   Ensure that proposed development and uses do not have an adverse effect on
        significant cultural resources.

B. Applicability     of     the   Cultural   Resource        Reconnaissance         and    Historic     Survey
   Requirements

   4. The reconnaissance survey standards of C, Cultural Resource Reconnaissance
      and Historic Survey, apply until a cultural resource survey of the General
      Management Areas is complete.

        a. Areconnaissance survey shall be required for all proposed uses, except:

           (1) The        modification,   expansion,    replacement,      or reconstruction        of existing
               buildings and structures.

           (2) Proposed uses that would not disturb the ground, including:

               (a) land divisions and lot-line adjustments/replats;

              (b) storage sheds that do not require a foundation;

               (c) low-intensity recreation uses, such as fishing, hunting, and hiking;

               (d) installation of surface chemical toilets;

              (e) hand treatment of brush within established rights-of-way; and

              (f) new uses of existing structures.

           (3) Proposed uses that involve              minor ground        disturbance,      as defined       by
               depth and extent, including:

              (a) repair and          maintenance       of   lawfully    constructed      and     serviceable
                  structures;

              (b) home gardens;

              (c) live-stock grazing;

              (d) cultivation that employs minimum tillage techniques, such as replanting

                                              9 0 1 0 0 0 4 0           Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA only)
                                                                                                  XX, XKXX 2010
Page 14-28

                       pastures using a grassland drill;

                    (e) construction of fences;

                    (f) new utility poles that are installed using an auger, post-hole digger, or
                        similar implement; and

                    (g) placement of mobile homes where septic systems and underground
                        facilities are not involved.

                       The   Gorge         Commission   will   review   all   land   use   applications   and
                       determine if proposed uses would have a minor ground disturbance.

                 (4) Proposed uses that occur on sites that have been disturbed by human
                     activities, provided the proposed uses do not exceed depth and extent of
                     existing ground disturbance.

                    (a) To qualify for this exception, a project applicant must demonstrate that
                        land disturbing activities occurred in the project area.

                    (b) Land disturbing activities include grading and cultivation.

                 (5) Proposed uses that would           occur on    sites that have        been   adequately
                     surveyed in the past.

                    (a) The project applicant must demonstrate that the project area has been
                       adequately surveyed to qualify for this exception.

                    (b) Past surveys must have been conducted by a qualified professional
                        and must include a surface survey and subsurface testing.

                    (c) The nature and extent of any cultural resources in the project area
                        must be adequately documented.

                 (6) Proposed uses occurring in areas that have a low probability of containing
                     cultural resources, except:

                    {a) residential development that involves two or more                  new dwellings for
                        the same project applicant;

                    (b) recreation facilities that contain parking areas for more than 10 cars,
                        overnight camping facilities, boat ramps, and visitor information and
                        environmental education facilities;

                    {c) public transportation facilities that are outside improved rights-of-way;

Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)                                90160010
XX, XXKXK 2010
                                                                                           Page 14-29

          (d) electric facilities, lines,    equipment,   and   appurtenances        that are      33
              kilovolts or greater; and

          (e) communications, water and sewer, and natural gas transmission (as
              opposed to distribution)lines, pipes, equipment, and appurtenances.

          Areas that have a low probability of containing cultural resources will be
          identified using the results of reconnaissance surveys conducted by the
          Gorge Commission, the U.S. Forest Service, public agencies, and private
          archaeologists.

   b. A reconnaissance survey shall be required for all proposed uses within 500
      feet of a known cultural resource, including those listed above in (a)(1)
      through (6). The location of known cultural resources are shown in the
      cultural resource inventory.

2. A historic survey shall be required for all proposed           uses that would alter the
   exterior architectural appearance        of buildings and structures that are 50 years
   old or older, or compromise features of the surrounding area that are important
   in defining the historic or architectural character of the buildings or structures that
   are 50 years old or older.

3. The Gorge Commission will conduct and pay for all reconnaissance and historic
   surveys for small-scale uses in the General Management Area.

   a. When     archaeological resources or traditional cultural properties are
      discovered, the Gorge Commission also will identify the approximate
      boundaries of the resource or property and delineate a reasonable buffer
      zone.

   b. Reconnaissance surveys and buffer zone delineations for large-scale uses
      shall be the responsibility of the project applicant.

   c. The Gorge Commission will conduct and pay for evaluations of significance
      and mitigation plans for cultural resources that are discovered during
      construction,   subsection    G, for small    and   large-scale    uses    in the General
      Management Area.

   d. For this Ordinance, large-scale uses include development involving:

      (1) two or more new residential dwellings;

      (2) recreation facilities;

      (3) commercial and industrial development,
                                            20160010        Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                                                                        XX, KOOKK 2010
Page 14-30

              (4) public transportation facilities;

              (5) electric facilities, lines, equipment, and appurtenances that are 33 kilovolts
                 or greater;

              (6) communications,          water   and   sewer,   and   natural   gas   transmission     (as
                 opposed to distribution) lines, pipes, equipment, and appurtenances; and

              (7) disposal sites

    4. The primary responsibility and cost of preparing an Evaluation of Significance, D;
       Assessment of Affect, E; or Mitigation Plan, F, shall be borne by the project
         applicant.

         a.   If the applicant has no practicable alternative, according to (5) below,
              Practicable Alternative Test, allowing them to avoid an affected cultural
              resource, or is seeking to make a change or addition to a historic resource,
              the Forest Service has agreed to provide services to aid in the preparation of
              the Evaluation of Significance, Assessment of Effect, or Mitigation Plan to the
              greatest extent possible.

         b. The responsibility for and cost of any development necessary to protect or
            mitigate effects on the cultural resource shall be borne by the project
            applicant.

    5. All cultural resource surveys, evaluations, assessments, and mitigation plans
       shall be performed by professionals whose expertise reflects the type of cultural
       resources that are involved. Principal investigators shall meet the professional
       standards published in 36 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 61 and
       Guidelines for evaluating and Documenting Traditional Cultural Properties
       (Parker and King, no date).

         Practicable Alternative Test

         An alternative site for a proposed use shall be considered practicable if it is
         available and the proposed use can be undertaken on that site after taking into
         consideration cost, technology, logistics, and overall project purposes.

         A practicable alternative does not               exist   if a project    applicant   satisfactorily
         demonstrates all of the following:

         a. The basic purpose of the use cannot be reasonably accomplished using one
            or more other sites in the vicinity that would avoid or result in less adverse
            effects on cultural resources;

Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                  20160010
XX, XXXK 2010
                                                                                                        Page 14-31

        b. The basic purpose of the use cannot be reasonably accomplished by
           reducing its size, scope, configuration, or density as proposed, or by
           changing the design of the use in a way that would avoid or result in less
             adverse effects on cultural resources; and

        c.   Reasonable attempts were made to remove or accommodate constraints that
             caused a project applicant to reject alternatives to the use as proposed.
             Such constraints include inadequate infrastructure, parcel size, and land use
             designations,      If a land    use     designation      or recreation     intensity class        is a
             constraint, an applicant must request a management                        plan amendment            to
             demonstrate that practicable alternatives do not exist.

C. Cultural Resource Reconnaissance and Historic Surveys

   1.   Gorge Commission/Tribal Government Notice

        a.   In addition to other public notice requirements that may exist, the County
             shall notify the Indian tribal governments when:

             (1) a reconnaissance survey is required; or

             (2) cultural resources that are prehistoric or otherwise associated with Native
                 Americans exist in the project area.

        b. Notices sent to Indian tribal              governments        shall   include     a site     plan     as
           stipulated in Section 14.040.

        c.   Indian tribal governments shall have 20 calendar days from the date a notice
             is mailed to submit written comments to the County Planning Office.

             (1) Written comments should describe the nature and extent of any cultural
                 resources that exist in the project area and identify individuals with
                 specific knowledge about them.

             (2) The County shall send a copy of all comments to the Gorge Commission.

   2.   Consultation and Ethnographic Research

        a. When written comments are submitted to the County Planning Office in a
           timely manner, the project applicant shall offer to meet with the interested
           persons within 10 calendar days.

             (1) The 10 day consultation period may be extended upon                                 agreement
                 between the project applicant and the interested persons.

             (2) Consultation     meetings         should   provide     an    opportunity      for    interested

                                                                         Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                        90100010                                                     XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-32

                 persons to explain how the proposed use may affect cultural resources.
                 Recommendations to avoid potential conflicts should be discussed,

             {3) All written comments and consultation meeting minutes shall be
                 incorporated into the reconnaissance or historic survey report.       In
                 instances where a survey is not required, all such information shall be
                 recorded and addressed in a report that typifies a survey report;
                 inapplicable elements may be omitted.

         b. A project applicant who is proposing a large-scale use or development shall
            conduct interviews and other forms of ethnographic research if interested
            persons submit a written request for such research.

             (1) All requests must include a description of the cultural resources that may
                 be affected by the proposed use and identify of knowledgeable
                 informants.

             {2) Ethnographic research shall be conducted by qualified specialists.       Tape
                 recordings, maps, photographs, and minutes shail be used                 when
                 appropriate.

             (3) All written comments, consultation meeting minutes and ethnographic
                 research shall be incorporated into the reconnaissance or historic survey
                 report. In instances where a survey is not required, all such information
                 shall be recorded and addressed in a report that typifies a survey report.

    3.   Notice of Survey Results

         a. The County shall submit a copy of all cultural resource survey reports to the
            State Historic Preservation Office and the Indian tribal governments.

             (1) Survey reports may include measures to avoid affected cultural resources,
                 such as a map that shows a reasonabie buffer zone.

             (2) The State Historic Preservation Office and the tribes shail have 30
                 calendar days from the date a survey report is mailed to submit written
                 comments to the County Planning Office.

             (3) The. County shall record    and   address   all   written   comments     in   its
                 development review order.

    4.   Conclusion of the Cultural Resource Protection Process

         a. The County Planning Office will make a final decision on whether the
            proposed use would be consistent with the cultural resource goals, policies,
            guidelines, and standards.
Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)                            2 0 1    0 0 fy 1 0
XX, XOOKX 2010
                                                                                      Page 14-33

b.   If the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the State Historic
     Preservation Office, the County must justify how it reached an opposing
     conclusion.

c. The cultural resource protection        process   may   conclude     when     one of the
   following conditions exist:

     (1) The proposed    use does not require a reconnaissance          or historic survey,
        no cultural resources are known to exist in the project area, and                    no
        substantiated concerns were voiced by interested persons within                      20
        calendar days of the date that a notice was mailed.

     (2) A reconnaissance survey demonstrates that cultural resources do not
        exist in the project area and no substantiated concerns were voiced by
        interested persons within 20 calendar days of the date that a notice was
        mailed.

     (3) The proposed use would avoid archaeological resources and traditional
         cultural resources that exist in the project area.

        (a) To meet this standard, a reasonable buffer zone must be established
           around the affected resources or properties;

        (b) All ground   disturbing   activities shall be prohibited     within the buffer
            zone.

        (c) Buffer zones must preserve the integrity and context of cultural
            resources. They will vary in width depending on the eventual use of
            the project area, the type of cultural resources that are present, and
            the characteristics for which the cultural resources may be significant.

        (d) A deed covenant, easement, or other appropriate mechanism shall be
           developed to ensure that the buffer zone and the cultural resources
           are protected.

        (e) An evaluation of significance shall be conducted if a project applicant
           decides not to avoid the affected cultural resource.        In these instances,
           the reconnaissance survey and survey report shall be incorporated into
           the evaluation of significance.

     (4) A historic survey demonstrates that the proposed use would not have an
         effect on historic buildings or structures because:

        {a) The State Historic Preservation Office concludes that the historic
            buildings or structures are clearly not significant, as determined using

                         20 100 0190                   Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                                                                  XX, XXXX 2010
                        the criteria in the "National Register Criteria for Evaluation" (36 CFR
                        Part 60.4); or

                  (b) The proposed use would not compromise the historic or architectural
                      character of the affected buildings or structures, or compromise
                      features of the site that are important in defining the overall historic
                      character of the affected buildings or structures, as determined by the
                      guidelines and standards in The Secretary of the Interior's Standards
                      for Rehabilitation (U.S. Department of the Interior 1990) and The
                      Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Historic Preservation Projects
                        (U.S. Department of the Interior 1983).

              (5) The historic survey conducted                   by the Gorge          Commission           may provide
                  sufficient information to satisfy these standards.

                  (a) If it does      not,     architectural       and      building     plans,       photographs,      and
                        archival research may be required; and

                  (b) The project applicant shall be responsible for providing                                information
                        beyond   that        included      in     the     survey       conducted        by    the    Gorge
                        Commission.

              (6) The    historic survey        and     report    must      demonstrate       that these       standards
                  have been clearly and absolutely satisfied.        If the State Historic
                  Preservation Office or the County Planning Office question whether these
                  standards have been satisfied, the project applicant shall conduct an
                  evaluation of significance, according to D below,          Evaluation of
                  Significance.

D. Evaluation of Significance

    1.   Evaluation Criteria

         Cultural resources are significant if one of the following criteria is satisfied.

         a.   The cultural resources are included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National
              Register of Historic Places.

              The criteria for evaluating the eligibility of cultural resources for the National
              Register of Historic Places appear in the "National Register Criteria for
              Evaluation"    (36 CFR         60.4).     Cultural resources are eligible for the National
              Register     of Historic       Places     if they         possess    integrity of location,           design,
              setting, materials,     workmanship,              feeling, and association.              In addition, they
              must meet one or more of the following criteria.

Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only}                                                          2   0 i 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                      Page 14-35

     (1) Have an association with events that have made a significant contribution
         to the broad patterns of the history of this region.

     (2) Have an association with the lives of persons significant in the past.

     (3) Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of
         construction, or represent the work of a master, or possess high artistic
         components may lack individual distinction.

     (4) Yield, or may   be likely to yield,   information   important in prehistory or
         history.

  b. The cultural resources are determined to be culturally significant by an Indian
     tribal government, based on criteria developed by that Indian tribal
     government and filed with the Gorge Commission.

. Evaluation Process and Information Needs

 If cultural resources would be affected by a new use, an evaluation of their
 significance shall be conducted.   Evaluations of significance shall meet the
 following standards:

 Evaluations of significance shall follow the procedures in How to Apply the
 National Register Criteria for Evaluation (U.S. Department of the Interior n.d.)
 and Guidelines for the Evaluation and Documentation of Traditional Cultural
 Properties (Parker and King n.d.). They shall be presented within local and
 regional contexts and shall be guided by previous research and current research
 designs that are relevant to specific research questions for the Columbia River
  Gorge.

  a. To evaluate the significance of cultural resources, the information gathered
     during the reconnaissance or historic survey may have to be supplemented.
     Detailed field mapping, subsurface testing, photographic documentation,
     laboratory analyses, and archival research may be required.

  b. The project applicant shall contact Indian tribal governments and interested
     persons, as appropriate.      Ethnographic research shall be undertaken as
     necessary to fully evaluate the  significance of the cultural resources.

 c. The evaluation of significance shall follow the principles, guidelines, and
    report format recommended by the State Historic Preservation Office. It shall
    incorporate the results of the reconnaissance or historic survey and shall
    illustrate why each cultural resource is or is not significant. Findings shall be
    presented within the context of relevant local and regional research.

                         20160010
                                                       Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                                                         .        XX, XAXKX 2010
Page 14-36

         d. All documentation              used to support the evaluation         of significance shall be
            cited.

              (1) Evidence of consultation with Indian                  tribal   governments      and    other
                  interested persons shall be presented.

              (2} All comments, recommendations, and correspondence from Indian tribal
                  governments and interested persons shall be appended to the evaluation
                  of significance.

    3.   Notice of Evaluation Results

         If the evaluation of significance demonstrates that the cultural resources are not
         significant, the County shall submit a copy of the evaluation of significance to the
         State Historic Preservation Office and the Indian tribal governments.

         a.   The       State   Historic    Preservation     Office,   Indian    tribal   governments,    and
              interested persons shall have 30 calendar days from the date the evaluation
              of significance is mailed to submit written comments to the County Planning
              Office.

         b. The County Planning Office shall record and address all written comments in
            its development review order.

    4.   Cultural Resources are Culturally Significant

         if an Indian tribal government believes that the affected cultural resources are
         culturally significant, contrary to the evaluation submitted by the project
         applicant, the Cultural Advisory Committee shall make an independent review of
         the applicant's evaluation and the Indian tribal government's substantiated
         concerns.

         a. The Cultural Advisory Committee will formulate a recommendation regarding
            the significance of the cultural resources.

         b.   The Indian        tribal government     must     substantiate      its concerns   in a written
              report.

              (1) The report must be submitted to the County Planning Office, Cultural
                  Advisory Committee, and the project applicant within 15 calendar days
                  from the date the evaluation of significance is mailed.

              (2) The Cultural Advisory Committee must submit its recommendation to the
                  County Planning Office within 30 calendar days from the date the
                  evaluation of significance is mailed.

Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                 20100010
XX, OK 2010
                                                                                                    Page 14-37

   5.    Conclusion of the Cultural Resource Protection Process

         The County will make a       final decision on whether the affected resources are
         significant.

         a.   If the final decision contradicts the comments or recommendations submitted
              by the State Historic Preservation Office or Cultural Advisory Committee, the
              County must justify how it reached an opposing conclusion.

         b.   The cultural resource protection process may conclude if the affected cultural
              resources are not significant.

         c.   If the project applicant or the County determines that the cultural resources
              are significant, the effects of the proposed use shall be assessed according
              to E below, Assessment of Effect.

E. Assessment of Effect

   41.   Evaluation Criteria and Information Needs

         If a use would affect significant cultural resources, an assessment shail be made
         to determine if it would have no effect, no adverse effect, or an adverse effect.
         The assessment shall meet the following standards:                        ;

         a. The assessment of effect shall be based on the criteria published in
            "Protection of Historic Properties" (36 CFR Part 800.5) and shall incorporate
            the results of the reconnaissance or historic survey and the evaluation of
            significance. All documentation shall follow the requirements listed in 36 CFR
            Part 800.11.

              (1) Proposed uses have an effect on cultural resources when they alter or
                  destroy characteristics of the resources that make them significant [36
                  CFR Part 800.5].

              (2) Proposed uses are considered to have an adverse effect when they may
                  diminish the integrity of the cultural resource's location, design, setting,
                  materials, workmanship, feeling, or association {36 CFR Part 800.5}.
                  Adverse effects on cultural resources include, but are not limited to:

                 (a) Physical destruction, damage, or alteration of all or part of the cultura!
                     resource;

                 {b) Isolation of the cultural resource from its setting or alteration of the
                     character of the resource’s setting when that character contributes to
                     the resource's qualification as being significant;

                                       9 9 1 t) 0 0 1 0        Cc hapter 14-1
                                                                           14-Cultural Resources   (OO ie] nl
Page 14-38

                    (c) Introduction of visual, audible, or atmospheric elements that are out of
                        character with the cultural resource or its setting;

                    (d) Neglect of a significant cultural resource resulting in its deterioration or
                        destruction, except as described in 36 CFR 800.5; and

                    (e) Transfer, lease, or sale of the cultural resource.

         b. The assessment of effect shall be prepared in consultation with Indian tribal
            governments and interested persons, as appropriate.      The concerns and
            recommendations voiced by Indian tribal governments and interested
            persons shall be recorded and addressed in the assessment.

         c. The effects of a proposed use that would otherwise be determined to be
            adverse may be considered to not be adverse in the following instances:

              (1) The cultural resources are of value only for their potential contribution to
                  archeological, historical, or architectural research, and when such value
                  can be substantially preserved through the conduct of appropriate
                  research before development begins, and such research is conducted in
                  accordance with applicable professional standards and guidelines,

              (2) The undertaking is limited to the rehabilitation of buildings and structures,
                  and is conducted in a manner that preserves the historical and
                    architectural character of affected cultural resources through conformance
                    with   The   Secretary of the Interior's Standards       for Rehabilitation   (U.S.
                    Department of the Interior 1990) and The Secretary of the Interior's
                    Standards for Historic Preservation Projects (U.S. Department of the
                    Interior 1983); or

               (3) The proposed use is limited to the transfer, lease, or sale of cultural
                   resources, and adequate restrictions or conditions are included to ensure
                   preservation of the significant features of the resources.

    2.   Notice of Assessment Results

         If the assessment of effect concludes that the proposed use would have no
         effect or no adverse effect on significant cultural resources, the County shall
         submit a copy of the assessment to the State Historic Preservation Office and
         the Indian tribal governments.

         a. The State Historic Preservation Office, Indian tribal governments, and
            interested persons shall have 30 calendar days from the date the
            assessment of effect is mailed to submit written comments to the County

OK           2610    Resources (GMA Only)                      9 0 1 0 0 6 1 0
                                                                                                  Page 14-39

                Planning Office.

           b. The County shall record and address all written comments in its development
                review order.

     3.    Conclusion of the Cultural Resource Protection Process

           The County will make a final decision on whether the proposed use would have
           no effect, no adverse effect, or an adverse effect.

           a.   If the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the State Historic
                Preservation Office, the County must justify how it reached an opposing
                conclusion.

           b.   The cultural resource protection process may conclude            if the proposed        use
                would have no effect or no adverse effect on significant cultural resources.

           c. A mitigation plan shall be prepared if a project applicant or the County
              determines that the proposed use would have an adverse effect on significant
              cultural resources according to F below, Mitigation Plans.

F.   Mitigation Plans

     41.   Mitigation Plan Criteria and Information Needs

           Mitigation plans shall be prepared when proposed uses would have an adverse
           effect on significant cultural resources. The plans must reduce an adverse effect
           to no effect or no adverse effect.       Mitigation plans shall meet the following
           guidelines:

           a. Mitigation plans shall be prepared in consultation with persons who have
              concerns about or knowledge of the affected cultural resources, including
              Indian tribal governments, Native Americans, local governments whose
              jurisdiction encompasses    the project area, and the State Historic
              Preservation Office.

           b. Avoidance of cultural resources through project design and modification is
              preferred.    Avoidance may be effected by reducing the size, scope,
              configuration, and density of the proposed use.

           c. Alternative mitigation     measures    shall   be   used   only    if avoidance       is not
              practicable.

                (1) Alternative measures include, but are not limited to, burial under fill,
                    stabilization, removal of the cultural resource to a safer place, and partial
                   ‘to full excavation and recordation.

                                           9 0 al 0 0 6 1 0        Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                                                                               XX, OK 2010
Page 14-40

                (2) If the mitigation plan includes buffer zones to protect cultural resources, a
                    deed covenant, easement, or other appropriate mechanism must be
                    developed and recorded in county deeds and records.

              Mitigation plans shall incorporate the results of the reconnaissance or historic
              survey, the evaluation of significance, and the assessment of effect, and shall
              provide the documentation required in 36 CFR Part 800.11, including, but not
                limited to:

                (1) A description and evaluation of any alternatives or mitigation measures
                    that the project applicant proposes for reducing the effects of the
                      proposed use;

                (2)A     description   of   any   alternatives   or   mitigation    measures    that   were
                      considered but not chosen and the reasons for their rejection;

                (3) Documentation of consultation with the State Historic Preservation Office
                    regarding any alternatives or mitigation measures;

                (4) A description of the project applicant's efforts to obtain and consider the
                    views of Indian tribal governments, interested persons, and local
                      governments; and

                (5) Copies of any written.recommendations submitted to the County Planning
                      Office or project applicant regarding the effects of the proposed use on
                      cultural resources and alternatives to avoid or reduce those effects.

    2.   Notice of Mitigation Plan Results

         If a mitigation plan reduces the effect of a use from an adverse effect to no effect
         or no adverse effect, the local government shall submit a copy of the mitigation
         plan to the State Historic Preservation Office and the Indian tribal governments.

         a.     The     State   Historic    Preservation   Office,    Indian   tribal   governments,    and
                interested persons shall have 30 calendar days from the date the mitigation
                plan is mailed to submit written comments to the County Planning Office.

                The local government shall record and address all written comments                     in its
                development review order.

    3.   Conclusion of the Cultural Resource Protection Process

         The County will make a final decision on whether the mitigation                       plan would
         reduce an adverse effect to no effect or no adverse effect.
Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)
XX, XXXK 2010                                                                      901000190
                                                                                              Page 14-41

        a.   If the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the State Historic
             Preservation Office, the County must justify how it reached an opposing
             conclusion.

        b. The cultural resource protection process may conclude if a mitigation plan
           would reduce an adverse effect to no effect or no adverse effect.

        c. The proposed use shall be prohibited when acceptable mitigation measures
             fail to reduce an adverse effect to no effect or no adverse effect.

G. Cultural Resources Discovered After Construction Begins

   The following procedures shall be effected when cultural resources are discovered
   during construction activities.

   4.   Halt Construction:   All construction activities within 100 feet of the discovered
        cultural resource shall cease.     The cultural resources shall remain as found;
        further disturbance is prohibited.

   2.   Notification: The project applicant shall notify the County Planning Office and
        the Gorge Commission within 24 hours of the discovery. If the cultural resources
        are prehistoric or otherwise associated with Native Americans, the                      project
        applicant shall also notify the Indian tribal governments within 24 hours.

   3.   Survey and Evaluation:       The Gorge Commission will survey the cultural
        resources after obtaining written permission from the landowner and appropriate
        permits from the State Historic Preservation Office (see, ORS 358.905 to
        358.955).

        a. The Commission will gather enough information to evaluate the significance
           of the cultural resources.

        b. The survey and evaluation will be documented in a report that generally
           follows the criteria in the "Reconnaissance Survey Reports--Large Scale
             Uses"   and   "Evaluation    of Significance,   Evaluation   Criteria_and    Information
             Needs" of this chapter.

        c.   Based   on the survey and evaluation         report and any written comments,          the
             County will make a final decision on whether the resources are significant.

        d. Construction      activities   may   recommence     if the cultural   resources     are not
           significant.

        e. A mitigation plan will be prepared by the Gorge Commission                  if the affected
           cultural resources are significant.

                                                2 0 1 0 0 0 1 Qhapter 14-cuttural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                                                                          XX, AXXXK 2010
Page 14-42

          Mitigation Pian:        Mitigation plans shall be prepared according to the information,
          consultation, and report guidelines contained in F above, Mitigation Plans.

          All survey and evaluation reports and mitigation plans shall be submitted to the
          County Planning Office and the State Historic Preservation Office.

          Indian tribal governments also shall receive a copy of all reports and plans if the
          cultural resources are prehistoric or otherwise associated with Native Americans.

          Construction activities may recommence when the conditions in the mitigation
          plan have been executed.

H. Discovery of Human Remains

    The        following   procedures        shall be effected   when   human     remains   are discovered
    during a cultural resource survey or during construction.                     Human     remains means
    articulated or disarticulated human skeletal remains, bones, or teeth, with or without
    attendant burial artifacts.

    1.    Halt Activities: All survey, excavation, and construction activities shall cease.
          The human remains shall not be disturbed any further.

          Notification: Local law enforcement officials, the County Planning Office, the
          Gorge Commission, and the Indian tribal governments shall be contacted
          immediately.

          Inspection: The county coroner, or appropriate official, shall inspect the remains
          at the project site and determine if they are prehistoric/historic or modern.
          Representatives from the Indian tribal governments shall have an opportunity to
          monitor the inspection.

          Jurisdiction: If the remains are modern, the appropriate law enforcement officials
          will assume jurisdiction and the cultural resource protection process may
          conclude.

          Treatment:        Prehistoric/historic remains of Native Americans shall generally be
          treated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Oregon Revised Statutes,
          chapter 97.740 to 97.760.

          If the human        remains will be reinterred or preserved           in their original position, a
          mitigation plan shall be prepared in accordance with the consultation and report
          requirements specified in F above, Mitigation Plans.

          a.    The plan shall accommodate              the cultural and   religious concerns      of Native
                Americans.
piece        eerie    Resources (GMA Only)                              9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
                                                                                                   Page 14-43

      b. The cultural resource protection process may conclude when the conditions
         set forth in F above,      Mitigation     Plans,      are   met   and   the mitigation     plan   is
         executed.

 Reconnaissance Surveys -- Small Scale Uses

 Reconnaissance surveys for small-scale uses shall generally include                            a surface
 survey and subsurface testing. They shall meet the following guidelines:

 4. A surface survey of the project area shall be conducted, except for inundated
    areas and impenetrable thickets.

 2.   Subsurface testing shall be conducted if the surface survey reveals that cultural
      resources may be present.

 3.   Subsurface probes will be placed at intervals sufficient to determine the absence
      or presence of cultural resources.

. Reconnaissance Survey Reports--Small Scale Uses

 The results of a reconnaissance survey shall be documented in a confidential report
 that includes:

 1. A description of the fieldwork methodology used to identify cultural resources,
    including a description of the type and extent of the reconnaissance survey.

 2. A description of any cultural resources that were discovered in the project area,
    including a written description and photographs.

 3. A    map   that   shows   the   project      area,   the     areas     surveyed,    the   location     of
      subsurface probes, and if applicable, the approximate boundaries of the affected
      cultural resources and a reasonable buffer zone.

 Reconnaissance Surveys--Large Scale Uses

 Reconnaissance surveys for large-scale uses shall be designed by a qualified
 professional. A written description of the survey shall be submitted to and approved
 by the Gorge Commission's designated archaeologist.

 Reconnaissance surveys shall reflect the physical characteristics of the project area
 and the design and potential effects of the proposed use. They shall meet the
 following standards:

  4. Archival research shall be performed prior to any field work. It should entail a
     thorough examination of tax records; historic maps, photographs, and drawings;
                                                                                                            i
                                     9 0 1 q 0 0 1 0                 Chapter 14-Cuitural Resources (GMA Onb
Page 14-44

         previous     archaeologic,        historic,    and   ethnographic     research;      cultural    resource
         inventories and records maintained by federal, state, and local agencies; and
         primary historic accounts, such as diaries, journals, letters, and newspapers.

         Surface surveys shail include the entire project area, except for inundated areas
         and impenetrable thickets.
         Subsurface probes shall be placed at intervals sufficient to document the
         presence or absence of cultural resources.

         Archaeological site inventory forms shall be submitted to the State                               Historic
         Preservation Office whenever cultural resources are discovered.

L.   Reconnaissance Survey Reports—Large Scale Uses

     The results of a reconnaissance survey for large-scale uses shall be documented in
     a confidential report.        Reconnaissance survey reports shall include:

     1. A description of the proposed use, including drawings and maps.

     2. A description of the project area, including                       soils,     vegetation,     topography,
        drainage, past alterations, and existing land use.

        A list of the documents and records examined during the archival research and a
         description of any prehistoric or historic events associated with the project area.

         A description of the fieldwork methodology used to identify cultural resources,
         including a map that shows the project area, the areas surveyed, and the
         location of subsurface probes.                The map shall be prepared at a scale of 1 inch
         equals 100 feet (1:1,200), or a scale providing greater detail.

         An inventory of the cultural resources that exist in the project area, including a
         written    description,     photographs,        drawings,   and     a map.        The      map   shall   be
         prepared at a scale of 1 inch equals 100 feet (1:1,200), or a scale providing
         greater detail.

         A summary of all written comments submitted by Indian tribal governments and
         other interested persons.

         A preliminary assessment of whether the proposed use would or would not have
         an effect on cultural resources. This assessment shall incorporate concerns and
         recommendations voided during consultation meetings and information obtained
         through archivic and ethnographic research and field surveys.

M. Historic Surveys and Reports

     Historic surveys shall document               the Jocation, form,       style,    integrity, and physical
ilar                Resources (GMA Only)                              .    ) 0 1 A) 0 0 1 tt)
                                                                                                   Page 14-45

 condition of historic buildings and structures.

 1.   Historic surveys shall include original photographs and maps.                 Archival research,
      blueprints, and drawings should be used as necessary.

      Historic surveys shall describe any uses that will alter or destroy the exterior
      architectural appearance of the historic buildings or structures, or compromise
      features of the site that are important in defining the overall historic character of
      the historic buildings or structures.

      The project applicant shall provide detailed architectural drawings and building
      plans that clearly illustrate all proposed alterations.

. Cultural Advisory Committee

 The Gorge Commission will establish a Cultural Advisory Committee.                          The Cultural
 Advisory Committee will be comprised of cultural resource professionals, interested
 individuals, and at least one representative from each of the four Indian tribes.

 The Cultural Advisory Committee will perform six principal functions:

 1.   Monitor     cultural   resource      surveys,     evaluations,   impact     assessments,          and
      mitigation plans;

      Periodically formulate and submit recommendations to the State Historic
      Preservation Office, local governments, and the Gorge Commission regarding
      cultural resource surveys, evaluations, impact assessments, and mitigation
      plans;

      Monitor cultural resource decisions              made   by the State      Historic Preservation
      Office and the local governments;

      Recommend         procedural and administrative changes to the Gorge Commission
      that would improve the cultural resource protection process;

      Advise the Gorge Commission on the design and implementation of future
      cultural resource inventories, including oral history programs and survey
      strategies; and

      Review evaluations of significance when a disagreement                        arises    between       a
      project applicant and an Indian tribal government.

      a.   In   these   instances,   the    Cultural   Advisory    Committee       will   submit    written
           recommendations to the local government.

                                        2 0 1 0 0 0 1 0            Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (GMA Only)]
                                                                                              XX, XXXXK 2010
Page 14-46

         b. Recommendations will be based on the evaluation prepared by the project
            applicant, reports submitted by Indian tribal governments, and comments
            submitted by interested persons, including the State Historic Preservation
              Office.

                    Resources (GMA Only)                 9 9 1 0 0 0 1 0
 BOOK        210
                                                                                               Page 14-47

Section 14.510      Cultural Resources (SMA Only)

In addition to the standards and conditions listed in this chapter for the GMA,                      the
following standards apply to all lands in the Special Management Area:

A. If a standard or condition of this Section is more restrictive than other sections of
   this chapter, this section is controlling;

   This section is applicable to all Federal agencies for new developments and land
   uses on all Federal lands, federally assisted projects and forest practices. The
   Forest Service will provide for completing the requirements of this Section for forest
   practices and National Forest system lands.

   All projects that are not included for review in B above shall be reviewed                     under
   Section 14.500 of this Chapter.                                       ;

   All cultural resource surveys, evaluations, assessments, and mitigation plans shall
   be performed by professionals whose expertise reflects the type of cultural
   resources that are involved.     Principal Investigators shall meet the professional
   standards published in 36 CFR Part 61.

   For federal or federally assisted undertakings, the reviewing agency will complete its
   consultation responsibilities under Section 106 of the Historic Preservation Act of
   1966. [36 CFR 800.2]

   Discovery During Construction:

   4. All authorizations for new developments or land uses shall be conditioned to
        require the immediate       notification of the reviewing    agency       in the event of the
        inadvertent discovery of cultural resources during construction or development.

   2.   In the event of the discovery of cultural resources, particularly human                bone or
        burials,   work   in the   immediate   area   of discovery   shail   be   suspended      until a
        cultural resource professional can evaluate the potential significance of the
        discovery, and recommend measures to protect and/or recover the resource.

   3.   If the discovered material is suspected           to be human        bone    or a burial, the
        following procedure shall be used:

        a. Stop all work in the vicinity of the discovery.

        b. The applicant shall immediately notify the Forest Service, the applicant's
           cultural resource professional, the County coroner, and appropriate law
           enforcement agencies.

        c. The     Forest Service    shali notify the tribal governments          if the discovery     is

                                         9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0         Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                                           XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-48

               determined to be an Indian burial or a cultural resource.

G. Effects to Cultural Resources

     Reviewing agencies shall use the following steps under 36 CFR 800.4 for assessing
     potential effects to cultural resources. and 36 CFR 800.5 for assessing adverse
     effects to cultural resources

     1.   Literature Review and Consultation

          a. An assessment of the presence of any cultural resources, listed on the
             National Register of Historic Places at the national, state or local level, on or
             within the area of potential direct and indirect impacts.

          b. A search of state and County, National Scenic Area/Forest Service and any
               other pertinent inventories, such as archives and photographs, to identify
               cultural resources, including consultation with the State Historic Preservation
               Office and tribal governments.   State and tribal government response shall be
               within 30 days.                                                             ;

          c.   Consultation with cultural resource professionals knowledgeable         about the
               area.                                                                         ;

     2.   Field Inventory

          a. As determined by G(1) above, the presence of a recorded or known cultural
             resource, including those reported in consultation with the tribal governments
             on or within the immediate vicinity of a new development or land use, shall
             require a field inventory by a cultural resource professional.

          b. Tribal representatives shall be invited to participate in the field inventory.

          c. The field inventory shall consist of one or the other of the following standards,
             as determined by the cultural resource professional:

               {1} Complete Survey:

                  (a) The systematic examination of the ground surface through a controlled
                      procedure, such as walking an area in evenly-spaced transects.

                  (b) A complete survey may also require techniques such as clearing of
                     vegetation, auguring or shovel probing of subsurface soils for the
                     presence of buried cultural resources.

ig   acer      tai Resources (SMA Only)                       9   0 1 f 0 0 1 0
                                                                                                    Page 1449

          (2) Sample Survey:

             (a) The sampling of an area to assess the potential of cultural resources
                 within the area of proposed development or use.

             (b) This technique is generally used for large or difficult to survey parcels,
                 and is generally accomplished by a stratified random or non-stratified
                 random sampling strategy.

             (c) A parcel is either stratified by variables such as vegetation, topography
                 or elevation, or by non-environmental factors such as a survey grid.

             (d) Under this method, statistically valid samples are selected and
                 surveyed to indicate the probability of presence, numbers and types of
                   cultural resources throughout the sampling strata.

             (e) Depending on the results of the sample,                   a complete     survey        may    or
                 may not subsequently be recommended.

     d. A field inventory report is required, and shall include the following:

          (1)A narrative integrating          the     Literature    Review      in G(1)   with    the     Field
              Inventory G(2).

          (2)A description of the. Field Inventory methodology utilized under G(2),
             describing the type and extent of field inventory, supplemented by maps
             which graphically illustrate the            areas     surveyed,    not surveyed,      and        the
             rationale for each.

          (3) A statement of the presence or absence of cultural resources within the
              area of the new development or land in use.

          (4) When cultural resources are not located, a statement of the likelihood of
              buried or otherwise concealed cultural resources shall be included.

          (5) Recommendations and standards for monitoring, if appropriate, shall be
             included.

     e.   Report    format   shall   foliow    that    specified     by   the   Oregon    State     Historic
          Preservation Office.

     f.   The field inventory report shall be presented to the Forest Service for review.

3.   Evaluations of Significance

     a, When cultural resources are found within the area of the new development or
                                                                                                                )
                                     90 100 010                       Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (SMa Onn
Page 14-50

              land use, an evaluation of significance shall be completed for each cultural
              resource relative to the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places (36
              CFR 60.4).

              Evaluations of cultural resource significance shall be guided by previous and
              current research designs relevant to specific research questions for the area.

              Evaluations of the significance of traditional cultural properties shall follow
              National   Register  Bulletin 38, “Guidelines        for the Evaluation       and
              Documentation of Traditional Cultural   Properties",    within local and regional
              contexts.

              Recommendations for eligibility of individual cultural resources under National
              Register Criteria A through D (36 CFR 60.4) shall be completed for each
              identified resource.         The   Forest   Service      shall    review   evaluations   for
              adequacy.

              Evidence of consultation with tribal governments and individuals with
              knowledge of the cultural resources in the project area, and documentation of
              their concerns, shall be included as part of the evaluation of significance.

    4.   Assessment of Effect

         a.   For each significant (i.e., National Register eligible) cultural resource
              inventoried within the area of the proposed development or change in use,
              assessments of effect shall be completed, using the criteria outlined in 36
              CFR 800.5 “Assessing Effects".        Evidence of consultation with tribal
              governments and individuals with knowledge of the cultural resources of the
              project area shall be included for (b) through (d) below.              The Forest Service
              shall review each determination for adequacy.

              If the proposed development or change in use will have "No Adverse Effect"
              (36 CFR 800.4) to a significant cultural resource, documentation for that
              finding shall be completed, following the "Documentation Standards” of 36
              CFR 800.11. If the proposed development or change in use will have an
              effect then the criteria of adverse effect must be applied (36 CFR 800.5).

              If the proposed development or change in use will have an "Adverse Effect"
              as defined by 36 CFR 800.5 to a cultural resource, the type and extent of
              “Adverse Effect" upon the qualities of the property that make it eligible to the
              National Register shall be documented (36 CFR 800.6 “Resolution of
              Adverse Effects”).    This documentation shall follow the process outlined
              under 36 CFR   800.11,  (‘Failure to Resolve Adverse Effects’).

         d. If the "effect" appears         to be beneficial   (i.e,    an enhancement        to cultural

Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (SMA Only)                       9012            ool 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                         Page 14-51

          resources), documentation shall be completed for the recommendation of
          that effect upon the qualities of the cultural resource that make it eligible to
          the National Register. This documentation shall follow the process outlined
          under 36 CFR 800.11 "Standards ".

5.   Mitigation

     a.   If there will be an effect on cultural resources, measures shall be provided (36
          CFR 800.6 “Resolution of Adverse Effects”) for mitigation of effects. These
          measures shall address factors such as avoidance of the property through
          project design or modification and subsequent protection, burial under fill,
          data recovery excavations, or other measures which are proposed to mitigate
          effects.

     b.   Evidence of consultation with tribal governments and individuals with
          knowledge of the resources to be affected, and documentation of their
          concerns, shall be included for all mitigation proposals.

     c. The Forest Service shall review all mitigation proposals for adequacy.

                                                                                                Onh)
                                   2 0 1 1) ct 0 4 0       Chapter 14-Cultural Resoureee (SMA
 Page 14-52

Chapter 14-Cultural Resources (SMA Only)   90100016
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                         Page 14-53

SECTION      14.600     Natural Resources (GMA Only)

A. Wetlands

   1.   Purpose

        a. Achieve no overall net loss of wetlands acreage and functions.

        b.   Increase the quantity and quality of wetlands.

   2.   Rules for Delineating Wetlands Boundaries

        a.   The approximate location and extent of wetlands in the Scenic Area is shown
             on the National Wetlands Inventory (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1987). In
             addition, the list of hydric soils and the soil survey maps shall be used as an
             indicator of wetiands.

             Some     wetlands    may   not be shown     on the wetland           inventory or soil survey
             maps. Wetlands that are discovered by the County planning staff during an
             inspection of a potential site shall be delineated and protected unless the
             proposed development is clearly sited beyond the wetland buffers as stated
             in A(3).

             Determining the exact location of                a    wetlands      boundary      shall     be     the
             responsibility of the project applicant.

             (1) Wetlands boundaries shall be delineated using the procedures specified
                 in the Corps of Engineers Wetlands Delineation Manual (Wetlands
                 Research Program Technical Report Y-87-1, on-line edition, updated
                 through March 21, 1997)

             (2) All wetlands delineations shall be conducted by a professional who has
                 been trained to use the federal delineation procedures, such as a soil
                 scientist, botanist, or wetlands ecologist.

             The County may verify the accuracy               of, and     may   render adjustments            to, a
             wetlands boundary delineation.

             In the event the adjusted        boundary delineation is contested by the project
             applicant, the County shall, at the applicant's expense,                   obtain professional
             services to render a final delineation.

   3.   Wetlands Buffer Zones

        a.   The    width   of   wetlands    buffer   zones       shall   be    based    on    the     dominant
             vegetation community that exists in a buffer zone.

                                            90 160 C10                    Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                                     20G 20060 2010
Page 14-54

              The dominant vegetation community in a buffer zone is the vegetation
              community that covers the most surface area of that portion of the buffer
              zone that lies between the proposed activity and the affected wetland.
              Vegetation communities are classified as forest, shrub, or herbaceous.

              (1) A forest vegetation community is characterized by trees with an average
                  height equal to or greater than 20 feet, accompanied by a shrub layer;
                  trees must form a canopy cover of at least 40 percent and shrubs must
                  form a canopy cover of at least 40 percent.

              (2) A forest community without a shrub component that forms a canopy cover
                  of at least 40 percent shall be considered a shrub vegetation community.

              (3) A shrub vegetation community is characterized by shrubs and trees that
                  are greater than 3 feet tall and form a canopy cover of at least 40 percent.

              (4) A herbaceous vegetation community is characterized by the presence of
                  herbs, including grass and grasslike plants, forbs, ferns, and nonwoody
                  vines.

              Buffer zones      shall be measured          outward        from a wetlands      boundary on a
              horizontal    scale    that    is   perpendicular      to    the     wetlands   boundary.     The
              following buffer zone widths shail be required.

              (1) Forest communities:                        75 feet

              (2) Shrub communities:                         100 feet

              (3) Herbaceous communities:                    150 feet

              Except as otherwise allowed, wetlands buffer zones shall be retained in their
              natural condition.

              When a       buffer zone      is disturbed   by a new         use,    it shall be replanted   with
              native plant species.

    4.   Modification to Serviceable Structures and Placement of Minor Water Dependent
         and Water-Related Structures in Wetlands

         The following uses may be allowed in wetlands and wetland buffer zones,
         subject to (5) below, Approval Criteria for Modifications to Serviceable Structures
         and Minor Water-Dependent_and Water-Related Structures in Wetlands, (7)
         below Site Plans, and the remaining applicable sections of this Chapter.

         a.   The   modification,     expansion,      replacement,        or reconstruction     of serviceable

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)                    9 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXXK 2010
                                                                                                     Page 14-55

      structures, if such actions would not:

      (1) Increase the size of an existing structure by more than 100 percent;

      (2) Result in a loss of wetlands acreage or functions; and

      (3) Intrude further into a wetland or wetlands buffer zone.

          New structures shall be considered to be intruding further into a wetland
          or wetlands buffer zone if any portion of the structure is located closer to
          the wetland or wetlands buffer zone than the existing structure.

      The construction of minor water-related recreation structures that are
      available for public use.   Structures in this category shall be limited to
      boardwalks; trails and paths, provided their surface is not constructed of
      impervious materials; observation decks; and interpretive aids, such as kiosks
      and signs.

      The construction of water-dependent structures that are placed on pilings, if
      the pilings allow unobstructed flow of water and are not placed so close
      together that they effectively convert an aquatic area to dry land. Structures
      in this category shall be limited to public and private docks and boat houses,
      and fish and wildlife management structures that are constructed by federal,
      state, or tribal resource agencies.

5. Approval Criteria for Modifications to Serviceable Structures and Minor Water-
   Dependent _and Water-Related Structures in Wetlands. The uses listed in (4)
   above may only be allowed upon findings that:

      Practicabie alternatives, as determined by E below, Practicable Altemative
      Test, minimizing the impacts of the structure do not exist;

      All reasonable measures have been applied to ensure that the structure will
      result   in   the   minimum    feasible    alteration      or     destruction      of   a    wetland’s
      functions,     existing   contour,    vegetation,   fish        and    wildlife   resources,         and
      hydrology;
      All. wetlands that are altered or destroyed shall be restored, replaced,                               or
      enhanced according to (8) below, Wetlands, Compensation Plan

      The structure will be constructed using best management practices;

      Areas disturbed during construction of the structure will be rehabilitated to the
      maximum extent practicable; and

      The structure complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws.

                                    2 0 1   a 0 0 1 0                 Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                                  XK, XXXXK 2010
Page 14-56

    6.   Other Uses and Activities Located in Wetlands or Wetland Buffer Zones.

         Except for uses permitted without review in Section 3.100 and 3.180(B) (Open
         Space) and Modifications to Serviceable Structures_and Placement_of Minor
         Water-Dependent and Water-Related                 Structures in Wetlands as specified in (4)
         above, other uses authorized by the applicable zoning designation may be
         allowed in wetlands and wetland buffer zones subject to (7) below, Site Plans,
         the remaining applicable sections of this Chapter and the following criteria:

             The proposed use is water-dependent, or is not water-dependent but has no
             practicable alternative as determined by E, Practicable Alternative Test.

             The proposed use is in the public interest as determined by F , Public Interest
             Test.

             Measures will be applied to ensure that the proposed use results in the
             minimum feasible alteration or destruction of the wetland's functions, existing
             contour, vegetation, fish and wildlife resources, and hydrology.

             Groundwater and surface-water quality will not be degraded by the proposed
             use.

             Those portions of a proposed use that are not water-dependent or have a
             practicable   alternative   will   not   be    located      in wetlands    or wetlands     buffer
             zones.

             The proposed use complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws.

             Areas that are disturbed during construction of the proposed                          use will be
             rehabilitated to the maximum extent practicable.

             Unavoidable      impacts    to wetlands         will   be    offset   through   the    deliberate
             restoration, creation, or enhancement of wetlands.      Wetlands restoration,
             creation, and enhancement are not alternatives to the guidelines listed above;
             they shall be used only as a last resort to offset unavoidable wetlands
             impacts.   Wetlands restoration, creation, and enhancement shall be in
             accordance with Subsection (8) below, Wetlands Compensation Plans.

             The following wetlands        restoration,      creation,     and     enhancement      guidelines
             shall apply:

             (1) Impacts to wetlands shall be offset by restoring or creating new wetlands
                 or by enhancing degraded wetlands. Wetlands restoration shall be the
                 preferred alternative.
. Ok         2   Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                 2 0 1 n 0 0 1 0
                                                                                                 Page 14-57

(2) Wetlands restoration, creation, and enhancement projects                                   shall    be
    conducted in accordance with a wetlands compensation plan.

(3) Wetlands restoration, creation, and enhancement projects shall use native
   vegetation.

(4) The   size   of replacement              wetlands     shall equal       or exceed     the following
   ratios.  The first number specifies the acreage of wetlands requiring
   replacement and the second number specifies the acreage of wetlands
   altered or destroyed.

   (a) Restoration:      2:1

   (b) Creation: 3:1

   (c) Enhancement:            4:1

(5) Replacement wetlands shall replicate the functions of the wetland that will
   be altered or destroyed such that no net loss of wetlands function occurs.

(6) Replacement wetlands should replicate the type of wetland that will be
    altered or destroyed. If this standard is not feasible or practical due to
    technical constraints, a wetland type of equal or greater benefit may be
   substituted, provided that no net loss of wetlands functions occurs.

(7) Wetlands restoration, creation, or enhancement should occur within 1,000
    feet of the affected wetland.     If this guideline is not practicable due to
    physical or technical constraints, replacement shall occur within the same
   watershed       and    as         close     to   the   altered      or   destroyed      wetland      as
   practicable.

(8) Wetlands restoration, creation, and enhancement efforts should be
    completed before a wetland is altered or destroyed. If it is not practicable
   to complete all restoration, creation, and enhancement efforts before the
   wetland is altered or destroyed, these efforts shall be completed before
   the new use is occupied or used.

(9) Five years after a wetland is restored, created, or enhanced at least 75
    percent of the replacement vegetation must survive. The project applicant
    shall monitor the hydrology and vegetation of the replacement wetland
    and shall take corrective measures to ensure that it conforms with the
    approved wetlands compensation plan and this guideline.

                      2 0 4 0 0 0 1 0                               Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                              XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-58

    7.   Site Plans

         In addition to the information required in all site plans, site plans for proposed
         uses in wetlands or wetlands buffer zones shall include:           a site plan map
         prepared at a scale of 1 inch equals 100 feet (1:1,200), or a scale providing
         greater detail; the exact boundary of the wetland and the wetiands buffer zone;
         and a description of actions that would alter or destroy the wetland.

    8.   Wetlands Compensation Plans

         Wetlands compensation plans shall be prepared when a project applicant is
         required to restore, create, or enhance wetlands. They shall satisfy the following
         guidelines:

              Wetlands compensation plans shail be prepared by a qualified professional.

         b. The primary responsibility and cost of preparing wetland compensation plans
            shall be borne by the applicant.        If the applicant has no practicable
            alternative, according to E below, Practicable Altemative Test, to locating
            within the wetland or wetland buffer area, the Forest Service has agreed to
            provide assistance in the preparation of the plan, to the greatest extent
              possible.

              Wetland compensation plans shall provide for land acquisition, construction,
              maintenance, and monitoring of replacement wetlands.

              Wetlands compensation plans shall include an ecological assessment of the
              wetland that will be altered or destroyed and the wetland that will be restored,
              created, or enhanced.      This assessment shall include information on flora,
              fauna, hydrology, and wetlands functions.

              Compensation plans shall also assess the suitability of the proposed site for
              establishing a replacement, wetland, including a description of the water
              source and drainage patterns, topography, wildlife habitat opportunities, and
              value of the existing area to be converted.

              Plan view and       cross-sectional,      scaled   drawings;      topographic survey data,
              including   elevations     at   contour    intervals     no    greater    than   1   foot,   slope
              percentages, and final grade elevations; and other technical information shall
              be provided in sufficient detail to explain and illustrate:

              (1) Soil and substrata conditions, grading, and erosion and sediment control
                  needed for wetland construction and long-term survival.

              (2) Planting plans that specify native plant species, quantities, size, spacing,
                  or density; source of plant materials or seeds; timing, season, water, and
OOK          ng   Resources (GMA Only)                           9   9 1    f 0 0 1 0
                                                                                   Page 14-59

     nutrient requirements for planting; and where appropriate, measures to
     protect plants from predation.

 (3) Water-quality parameters, water source, water depths, water-control
     structures, and water-level maintenance practices needed to achieve the
     necessary hydrologic conditions.

. A 5-year monitoring, maintenance, and replacement program shall be
  included in all plans. At a minimum, a project applicant shall provide an
  annual report that documents milestones, successes, problems, and
  contingency actions. Photographic monitoring stations shall be established
  and photographs shall be used to monitor the replacement wetland.

. A project applicant shall demonstrate sufficient fiscal, technical, and
  administrative competence to successfully execute a wetlands compensation
  plan.

 (1) The Director may require the owner of the property to sign a contract with
     the County for enforcement of the Wetland Compensation Plan. Such
     contract shall be executed within thirty (30) days after approval is granted,
     provided, however, that the Director may grant time extensions due to
     practical difficulty. The Director shall have the authority to execute such
     contracts on behalf of the County.        If a contract is required,      no building
     permit shali be issued for the use covered by the application, nor
     construction commence until the executed contract is recorded on the real
     property records of Wasco County and filed in the County Journal. Such
     contract shall not restrict the power of subsequent administrative action,
     with or without conditions. Such contracts shall be enforceable against
     the signing parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns by Wasco County
     by appropriate action in law or suit in equity for the benefit of public health,
     safety and welfare.               :

 (2) A bond, in a form acceptable to the Director or, upon appeal or review, by
     the Commission or County Court or a cash deposit from the property
     owner(s) or contract purchaser(s) in such amount. as will assure
     compliance with the Wetland Compensation Plan may be required. Such
     bond or deposit shali be posted before any building permits will be issued
     or construction may commence.

                       2   9 j tf) 0 0 1   0          Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Cnly}
                                                                               XX, XXXK 2010
Page 14-60

B. Streams, Ponds, Lakes, and Riparian Areas

    4.   Purpose

         a.   Protect water quality, natural drainage,              and      fish    and     wildlife   habitat   of
              streams, ponds, lakes, and riparian areas.

         b. Enhance aquatic and riparian areas.

    2.   Stream,     Pond,   and Lake Buffer Zones

         a.   Buffer zones shall generally be measured landward from the ordinary high
              water-mark on a horizontal scale that is perpendicular to the ordinary high
              water-mark. On the main stem of the Columbia River above Bonneville Dam,
              buffer zones shall be measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
              the Columbia River. The following buffer widths shall be required:

              (1) Streams used by anadromous or resident fish (tributary fish habitat),
                  special streams, intermittent streams that include year-round pools, and
                  perennial streams: 100 feet.

              (2) Intermittent streams, provided            they   are     not   used       by anadromous         or
                  resident fish: 50 feet.

              (3) Ponds and lakes:

                   (a) The   pond     or   lake   buffer   zones   shall    be      based    on   the   dominant
                      vegetation community that exists in a buffer zone.

                   (b) The dominant vegetation community in a buffer zone is the vegetation
                       community that covers the most surface area of that portion of the
                       buffer zone that lies between the proposed activity and the affected
                       pond or lake. Vegetation communities are classified as forest, shrub,
                       or herbaceous.

                      (i) A forest vegetation community is characterized by trees with an
                          average height equal to or greater than 20 feet, accompanied by a
                          shrub layer; trees must form a canopy cover of at least 40 percent
                          and shrubs must form a canopy cover of at least 40 percent.

                      (ii) A forest community without a shrub component that forms a
                          canopy cover of at least 40 percent shall be considered a shrub
                         vegetation community.

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)                    9 G 1 4) 0 4) 1 0
XX, XXX 2010
                                                                                          Page 14-61

           (ii)A shrub vegetation community is characterized by shrubs and trees
               that are greater than 3 feet tall and form a canopy cover of at least
               40 percent.

           (iv)A herbaceous vegetation community is characterized by the
               presence of herbs, including grass and grasslike plants, forbs,
                ferns, and nonwoody vines.

        (c) Buffer zones shall be measured outward from a pond or lake boundary
           on   a   horizontal    scale   that   is   perpendicular    to   the   pond    or     lake
           boundary.     The following buffer zone widths shall be required.

           (i) Forest communities:        75 feet

           (ii) Shrub communities:        100 feet

           (iii) Herbaceous communities:         150 feet

        (d) Except as otherwise allowed, pond               or lake   buffer zones       shall     be
            retained in their natural condition.

        (e) When    a buffer zone is disturbed by a new use, it shall be replanted
           with native plant species.

   . Determining the exact location of the ordinary highwater-mark or normal pool
     elevation shall be the responsibility of the project applicant. The County may
     verify the accuracy of, and may render adjustments to, an ordinary high
     water-mark or normal pool delineation. In the event the adjusted boundary
     delineation is contested by the project applicant, the County shall, at the
     project applicant's expense, obtain professional services to render a final
     delineation.

. Modifications to Serviceable Structures and     _Placement_of Minor                      Water-
  Dependent and Water-Related Structures in Aquatic Riparian Areas.

 The following uses may be allowed in streams, ponds, lakes, and riparian areas,
 subject to (4) below, Approval Criteria for Modifications to Serviceable Structures
 and Placement of Minor Water-Dependent and Water-Related Structures in
 Aquatic Riparian Areas, (6) below, Site Plans, the remaining applicable sections
 of this Chapter and the following:

 a. The modification, expansion, replacement or reconstruction                    of serviceable
    structures, provided that such actions would not:

     (1) Increase the size of an existing structure by more than 100 percent,

                                                             Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only}
                                 20100010              ,                              XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-62

               (2) Result in a loss of water quality, natural drainage, and fish and wildlife
                   habitat, or

               (3) Intrude further into a stream, pond, lake, or buffer zone.

                   New structures shall be considered intruding further into a stream, pond,
                   lake, or buffer zone if any portion of the structure is located closer to the
                   stream, pond, lake, or buffer zone than the existing structure.

               The construction of minor water-related recreation structures. that are
               available for public use.    Structures in this category shall be limited to
               boardwalks; trails and paths, provided their surface is not constructed of
               impervious materials; observation decks; and interpretive aids, such as kiosks
               and signs.

               The construction of minor water-dependent structures that are placed on
               pilings, if the pilings allow unobstructed flow of water and are not placed so
               close together that they effectively convert an aquatic area to dry land.
               Structures in this category shall be limited to public and private docks and
               boat      houses,     and     fish        and   wildlife   management        structures    that   are
               constructed by federal, state.or tribal resource agencies.

    4.   Approval Criteria for Modifications to Serviceable Structures and Minor Water-
         Dependent and Water-Related Structures in Aquatic and Riparian areas. The
         uses listed in (3) above may only be allowed upon findings that:

         a.    Practicable alternatives,                as determined     by E below,     Practicable Alternative
               Test, minimizing the impacts of the structure do not exist;

               All reasonable measures have been applied to ensure that the structure will
               result in the minimum feasible alteration or destruction of water quality,
               natural drainage,        and fish and wildlife habitat of streams,             ponds,     lakes, and
               riparian areas;

               All aquatic and riparian areas that are altered or destroyed shall be restored,
               replaced,   or enhanced      according to (7) below,        Rehabilitation and
               Enhancement Plans;                                                 ;

               The structure will be constructed using best management practices;

               Areas disturbed during construction of the structure will be rehabilitated to the
               maximum extent practicable; and

               The structure complies with all applicable, federal, state and local laws.

COOK          OD      Resources (GMA Only)          .                        9   9 1   9 0 0 1 0
                                                                                                  Page 14-63

5.   Other Uses and Activities Located in Aquatic and Riparian Areas

     Except for uses permitted without review in 3.100 and 3.180(B) (Open Space)
     and modifications to serviceable structures and placement of minor water-
     dependent and water-related structures in aquatic and riparian areas as
     specified in (3) above, other uses authorized by the applicable zoning
     designation may be allowed in aquatic and riparian areas subject to (6) below,
     Site Plans, the remaining applicable sections of this Chapter, and the following
     criteria:

     a. The proposed use is water-dependent, or is not water-dependent but has no
        practicable alternative as determined by E below, Practicable Alternative Test
        of this section.

     b. The proposed use is in the public interest as determined by F below, Public
        Interest Test of this section.

     c.   Measures       have    been      applied   to ensure   that the   proposed    use     results    in
          minimum       feasible impacts to water quality, natural drainage,                 and fish and
          wildlife habitat of the affected stream, pond, lake and/or buffer zone.

          As a starting point, the following mitigation measures shall be considered
          when new uses are proposed in streams, ponds, lakes, and buffer zones:

          (1) Construction shall occur during periods when fish and wildlife are least
              sensitive to disturbance.  Work in streams, ponds, and lakes shall be
              conducted during the periods specified in "Oregon Guidelines for Timing
              of In-Water Work to Protect Fish and Wildlife Resources" (Oregon
              Department of Fish and Wildlife 2000) unless otherwise coordinated with
              and approved by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.

          (2) All natural vegetation shall be retained to the greatest extent practicable,
              including aquatic and riparian vegetation.

          (3) Nonstructural! controls and natural processes shall be used to the greatest
              extent practicable.

          (4) Bridges,       roads, pipeline and utility corridors, and other water crossings
                 shall be minimized and should serve multiple purposes and properties.

          (5) Stream channels shali not be placed in culverts unless absolutely
              necessary for property access. Bridges are preferred for water crossings
                 to reduce    disruption    to streams,   ponds,   lakes,   and their banks.        When
                 culverts are necessary, oversized culverts with open                    bottoms       that
                 maintain the channel's width and grade should be used.

                                    9 0 1 9 0 0 1 0                  Chapter 14-Natural Re       SOK      200
Page 14-64

                (6) Temporary and permanent control measures shall be applied to minimize
                    erosion and sedimentation when riparian areas are disturbed, including
                   slope netting berms and ditches,              tree        protection,       sediment      barriers,
                   infiltration systems, and culverts.

                Groundwater and surface-water quality will not be degraded by the proposed
                use.

                Those portions of a proposed use that are not water-dependent or have a
                practicable alternative will be located outside of stream, pond, and lake buffer
                zones.

                The use complies with all applicable federal, state, and local laws.

                Unavoidable     impacts     to aquatic    and   riparian      areas    will     be    offset through
                rehabilitation and enhancement.

                Rehabilitation and enhancement shall achieve no net loss of water quality,
                natural drainage,       and fish and wildlife habitat of the affected stream,                   pond,
                lake, and/or buffer zone. When a project area has been disturbed in the past
                it shall be rehabilitated to. its natural condition to the maximum extent
                practicable.

                When a project area cannot be completely rehabilitated, such as when a boat
                launch permanently displaces aquatic and riparian areas, enhancement shall
                also be required.

                The following rehabilitation and enhancement standards shall apply:

                (1) Rehabilitation and    enhancement     projects shall be                           conducted      in
                    accordance with a rehabilitation and enhancement plan.

                (2) Natural hydrologic conditions shall be replicated, including current
                    patterns, circulation, velocity, volume, and normal water fluctuation.

                (3) Natural    stream     channel   and   shoreline     dimensions            shall   be   replicated,
                   including depth, width, length, cross-sectional profile, and gradient.

                (4) The bed of the affected aquatic area shall be rehabilitated with identical or
                    similar materials.

                (5) Riparian areas shall be rehabilitated               to     their   original       configuration,
                    including slope and contour.

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
XX, 100K 2010                                                    991°0010
                                                                                                    Page 14-65

       (6) Fish and wildlife habitat features shall be replicated, including pool-riffle
           ratios, substrata, and structures. Structures include large woody debris
           and boulders.

       (7) Stream channels and banks, shorelines, and riparian areas shall be
           replanted with native plant species that replicate the original vegetation
           community.

       (8) Rehabilitation and enhancement efforts shall be completed no later than
           90 days after the aquatic area or buffer zone has been altered or
           destroyed, or as soon thereafter as is practicable.

       (9) Three years after an aquatic area or buffer zone is rehabilitated or
           enhanced, at least 75 percent of the replacement vegetation must survive.
            The project applicant shall monitor the replacement vegetation and take
           corrective measures to meet this standard.

. Site Plans

  In addition to the information required in all site plans, site plans for proposed
  uses in streams, ponds, lakes, and their buffer zones shall include:         a map
  prepared at a scale of 1 inch equals 100      feet  (1:1,200), or a scale providing
  greater detail; the exact boundary of the ordinary high water-mark or normal pool
  elevation and the prescribed buffer zone; and a description of actions that would
  alter or destroy the’ stream, pond, lake, or riparian area.

. Rehabilitation and Enhancement Plans

  Rehabilitation     and    enhancement      plans     shall    be   prepared      when         a     project
  applicant is required to rehabilitate or enhance a stream,                    pond,     lake,       and/or
  buffer zone. They shall satisfy the following standards:

  a.   Rehabilitation and enhancement         plans shall be primarily the responsibility of
       the applicant.      If the applicant has no practicable alternative, according to E
       below, Practicable Alternative Test, to locating within the stream, pond, lake,
       riparian   zone,    or buffer area,   the     Forest    Service    has   agreed         to provide
       assistance in the preparation of the plan, to the greatest extent possible.

  b. Rehabilitation and enhancement plans shall                      be   prepared        by        qualified
     professionals, such as fish or wildlife biologists.

  c. All plans shall include an assessment               of the physical characteristics and
       natural functions of the affected stream, pond, lake, and/or buffer zone.                         This
       assessment shall include hydrology, flora, and fauna.

                               2   9 1 § 0 0 1 0                 Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only}
                                                                                           XX, XXXKX 2010
Page 14-66

           d. Plan view and cross-sectional, scaled drawings; topographic survey data,
              including elevations at contour intervals of at least 2 feet, slope percentages,
                 and final grade elevations; and other technical information shall be provided
                 in sufficient detail to explain and illustrate:

                 (1) Soil and substrata conditions, grading and excavation, and erosion and
                     sediment control needed to successfully rehabilitate and enhance the
                     stream, pond, lake, and buffer zone.

                 (2) Planting plans that specify native plant species, quantities, size, spacing,
                     or density; source of plant materials or seeds; timing, season, water, and
                     nutrient     requirements     for planting;    and     where     appropriate,   measures      to
                     protect plants from predation.

                 (3) Water-quality   parameters,   construction    techniques,     management
                     measures, and design specifications      needed   to  maintain  hydrologic
                     conditions and water quality.

           e,    A 3-year monitoring, maintenance, and replacement program shall be
                 included in all rehabilitation and enhancement plans. At a minimum, a project
                 applicant shail prepare an annual report that. documents             milestones,
                 successes, problems, and contingency actions.         Photographic    monitoring
                 shall be used to monitor all rehabilitation and enhancement efforts:

                 A project applicant shall demonstrate               sufficient fiscal, administrative,          and
                 technical      competence       to successfully    execute     and     monitor   a rehabilitation
                 and enhancement plan.

                 (1)The Director may require the owner of the property to sign a contract with
                    the County for enforcement of the Rehabilitation and Enhancement Plan.
                     Such contract shall be executed within thirty (30) days after approval is
                     granted, provided, however, that the Director may grant time extensions
                    due to practical difficulty. The Director shall have the authority to execute
                     such      contracts    on   behalf of the     County.     If a contract      is required,    no
                     building permit shall be issued for the use covered by the application, nor
                     construction      commence,       until the executed       contract is recorded       on the
                     real property records of Wasco County and filed in the County Journal.
                     Such contract shall not restrict the power of subsequent administrative
                     action,     with or without conditions.         Such    contracts shall be enforceable
                     against the signing parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns by Wasco
                     County by appropriate action in law or suit in equity for the benefit of
                     public health, safety and welfare.

RO   COK        Ne   Resources (GMA Only)                            9    0 1 9 0 0 { 0
                                                                                            Page 14-67

(2) A bond, in a form acceptable to the Director or, upon appeal or review, by
    the Commission or County Court or a cash deposit from the property
    owner(s) or contract purchaser(s) in such amount as will assure
   compliance   with    the   Rehabilitation   and    Enhancement                Plan       may    be
   required.    Such bond or deposit shall be posted before                         any     building
   permits will be issued or construction may commence.

                       99319001
                        f  ¢    0                       apter 14-N: 14-Natural IR euro
                                                     Chapter                             o8 (Oot
                                                                                            GMA Ont:
Page 14-68

C. Wildlife Habitat

    1.   Purpose:

         a.   Ensure that new uses do not adversely affect sensitive wildlife areas and
              sites.

              "Sensitive      wildlife      areas"      means     the   17       land     and   water           areas   that     are
              included in the wildlife inventory of the Management Plan.

              "Sensitive wildlife sites" is used here in a generic sense to refer to sites that
              are used by species that are:

              (1) Listed as endangered or                       threatened         pursuant        to     federal       or     state
                  endangered species acts,

              (2) Listed as sensitive by the Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commission, or

              (3) Considered to be of special interest to the public, limited to great blue
                  heron, osprey, mountain goat, golden eagle, and prairie falcon.

         c.   Enhance wildlife habitat that has been altered or destroyed by past uses.

    2.   Approval Criteria for Fences in Deer and Elk Winter Range

         New fences          in deer        and      elk winter     range        shall    comply         with     the following
         standards.

         a.   New      fences     in     deer     and   elk   winter    range           shall be        allowed     only       when
              necessary to control livestock or exclude wildlife from specified areas, such
              as gardens or sensitive wildlife sites. The areas fenced shall be the minimum
              necessary to meet the immediate needs of the project applicant.

              New and        replacement fences that are allowed                         in winter range shall comply
              with     the   guidelines         in Specifications       for Structural Range                     Improvements
              (Sanderson et. al. 1990), as summarized                        below, unless the project applicant
              demonstrates the need for an alternative design:

              (1) To make it easier for deer to jump over the fence, the top wire shall not be
                  more than 42 inches high.

              (2) The distance between the top two wires is critical for adult deer because
                  their hind legs often become entangled between these wires. A gap of at
                  least 10 inches shail be maintained between the top two wires to make it
                  easier for deer to free themselves if they become entangled.

eileen               Resources (GMA Only)                                    9   5 1     4 0 0 1 0
                                                                                              Page 14-69

          (3) The bottom wire shall be at least 16 inches above the ground to allow
              fawns to crawl under the fence. It should consist of smooth wire because
              barbs often injure animals as they crawl under fences.

          (4) Stays, or braces placed between strands of wire, shall be positioned
              between fence posts where deer are most likely to cross. Stays create a
              more rigid fence, which allows deer a better chance to wiggle free if their
              hind legs become caught between the top two wires.

     c. Woven wire fences may be authorized only when a project applicant clearly
        demonstrates that such a fence is required to. meet his/her specific and
        immediate needs, such as controlling hogs and sheep.

3.   Uses    and Activities Permitted within     1,000 feet of a Sensitive Wildlife Area              or
     Site.

     Except for uses permitted without review in Section 3.100 and 3.180(B) (Open
     Space), uses and activities authorized by the applicable designation may be
     allowed within 1,000 feet of a sensitive wildlife area or site subject to (4) below,
     Site Plans and Field Surveys, the remaining applicable sections this Chapter and
     the following criteria:

     a.   Uses that are proposed within 1,000 feet of a sensitive wildlife area or site
          shall be reviewed by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.

          (1) The approximate locations of sensitive wildlife areas and sites are shown
              in the wildlife inventory.

          (2) State wildlife biologists will help to determine if a new use would adversely
             affect a sensitive wildlife area or site.

     b. The Site plan shall be submitted to the Oregon Department of Fish and
        Wildlife by the County. State wildlife biologists will review the site plan and
        their field survey records. They will:

          (1) Identify/verify the precise location of the wildlife area or site,

          (2) Ascertain whether the wildlife area or site is active or abandoned,

          (3) Determine if the proposed use may compromise the integrity of the wildlife
              area or site or occur during the time of the year when wildlife species are
              sensitive to disturbance, such as nesting or rearing seasons, and

          (4) In some instances, state wildlife biologists may conduct field surveys to
              verify the wildlife inventory and assess the potential effects of a proposed
              use.
                                                               Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                        XK,   AKKK 2010
                                99120010
Page 14-70

         c.   The following factors may be considered when site plans are reviewed:

              (1) Biology of the affected wildlife species.

              (2) Published guidelines regarding the protection and management of the
                  affected wildlife species.   The Oregon Department of Forestry has
                  prepared technical papers that include management guidelines for osprey
                  and great blue heron.

              (3) Physical characteristics of the       subject     parcel   and   vicinity,   including
                  topography and vegetation.

              (4) Historic, current, and proposed uses in the vicinity of the sensitive wildlife
                 area or site.

              (5) Existing condition of the wildlife area or site and the surrounding habitat
                  and the useful life of the area or site.

              The wildlife protection process may terminate if the County, in consultation.
              with the state wildlife agency, determines:

              (1) The sensitive wildlife area or site is not active, or

              (2) The proposed use would not compromise the integrity of the wildlife area
                  or site or occur during the time of the year when wildlife species are
                  sensitive to disturbance.

              {f the County, in consultation with the State wildlife agency, determines that
              the proposed use would have only minor effects on the wildlife area or site
              that could be eliminated through mitigation measures recommended by the
              state wildlife biologist, or by simply modifying the site plan or regulating the
              timing of new uses:

              (1) A letter shall be sent to the project applicant that describes the effects and
                  measures needed to eliminate them.

              (2) If the project applicant accepts these recommendations, the County will
                  incorporate them into its development review order, and

              (3) The wildlife protection process may conclude.

              if the County,     in consultation, with Oregon     Department of Fish and Wildlife,
              determines that the proposed use would adversely affect a sensitive wildlife
              area or site and the effects of the proposed use cannot be eliminated through
              site plan modifications or project timing, the project applicant shall prepare a

eK 20
Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
                                                              20100010
                                                                                                               Page 14-71

          wildlife management plan as specified in 5, Wildlife Management Plans.

     g. The County shall submit a copy of all field surveys and wildlife management
        plans to Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.

          (1) The state wildlife agency will have 20 days from the date that a field
              survey or management plan is mailed to submit written comments to the
             County Planning Office.

          (2) The   local government             shall     record    and      address    any      written   comments
             submitted by the state wildlife agency in its development review order.

     h.   Based on the comments from the state wildlife agency, the County will make
          a final decision on whether the proposed use would be consistent with the
          wildlife policies and guidelines.

          (1) If the final decision        contradicts the comments submitted                           by the state
              wildlife agency, the         County shall justify how it reached                          an opposing
              conclusion.

          (2) The County shall require the project applicant to revise the wildlife
              management plan to ensure that the proposed use would not adversely
              affect a sensitive wildlife area or site.

4.   Site Plans and Field Surveys

     a.   In addition to the information                 required for all site plans, site plans for uses
          within 1,000 feet of a sensitive wildlife area or site shall include a map
          prepared at a scale of 1 inch equals 100 feet (1:1,200), or a scale providing
          greater detail.

     b. A field survey to identify sensitive wildlife areas or sites shall be required for:

          (1) Land divisions that create four or more parcels;

          (2) Recreation      facilities that contain              parking     areas for more than             10 cars,
              overnight     camping      facilities,        boat     ramps,      and    visitor     information       and
              environmental education facilities;

          (3) Public transportation facilities that are outside improved rights-of-way;

          (4) Electric    facilities,   lines,      equipment,          and     appurtenances           that    are    33
              kilovolts or greater; and

          (5) Communications, water and sewer, and natural gas transmission (as
              opposed to distribution) lines, pipes, equipment, and appurtenances and

                                                                                                            XX, 100K 2010
                                                                                Chapter 44-Natural Resources (GMA Only)

                               29190010
Page 14-72

                        other project related activities, except when all of their impacts will occur
                        inside previously disturbed road, railroad or utility corridors, or existing
                        developed utility sites, that are maintained annually.

         c.      Field surveys shail cover all areas affected by the proposed use or recreation
                 facility. They shall be conducted by a professional wildlife biologist hired by
                 the project applicant. All sensitive wildlife areas and sites discovered in a
                 project area shail be described and shown on the site plan map.

    5.   Wildlife Management Plans

         Wildlife management plan shall be prepared when a proposed use is likely to
         adversely affect a sensitive wildlife area or site. Their primary purpose is to
         document the special characteristics of a project site and the habitat
         requirements of affected wildlife species. This information provides a basis for
         the project applicant to redesign the proposed use in a manner that protects
         sensitive wildlife areas and sites, maximizes his/her development options, and
         mitigates temporary impacts to the wildlife area or site and/or buffer zone.

         Wildlife management plans shall meet with the following standards:

                 Wildlife management                  plans   shall   be   prepared   by a professional   wildlife
                 biologist.

                 The primary responsibility and cost of preparing wildlife management pians
                 shall be borne by the applicant.       If the applicant has no practicable
                 alternative, according to E below, Practicable Alternative Test, to locating
                 within      1,000 feet of a sensitive wildlife area or site, the Forest Service              has
                 agreed to provide assistance in the preparation of the plan, to the greatest
                 extent possible.

                 All relevant background information shall be documented                       and considered,
                 including   biology of the affected   species, published                       protection and
                 management guidelines, physical characteristics of the subject parcel, past
                 and present use of the subject parcel, and useful life of the wildlife area or
                 site.                  ;

         d. The core habitat of the sensitive wildlife species shall be delineated. It shall
            encompass the sensitive wildlife area or site and the attributes, or key
            components, that are essential to maintain the long-term use and integrity of
            the wildlife area or site.

                 A wildlife buffer zone shall be employed. It shall be wide enough to ensure
                 that the core habitat is not adversely affected by new uses, or natural forces,
                 such as fire and wind. Buffer zones shall be delineated on the site plan map

                        Re esources            nly)
                                      ( (GMA Only)                         901290
                                                                               f  010
COOK
Chi          O10
             -Natural
                                                                                    Page 14-73

  and shall reflect the physical characteristics of the project site and the biology
  of the affected species.

 The size, scope, configuration, or density of new uses within the core habitat
 and the wildlife buffer zone shall be regulated to protect scenic wildlife
 species. The timing and duration of all uses shall also be regulated to ensure
 that they do not occur during the time of the year when wildlife species are
 sensitive to disturbance. The following standards shall apply:

  (1) New uses shall generally be prohibited within the core habitat. Exceptions
      may include uses that have temporary and negligible effects, such as the
      installation of minor underground utilities or the maintenance of existing
      structures.    Low intensity, non-destructive uses may be conditionally
      authorized in the core habitat.

  (2) Intensive uses shall be generally prohibited in wildlife buffer zones. Such
      uses may be conditionally authorized when a wildlife area or site is
      inhabited seasonally, provided they will have only temporary effects on the
      wildlife buffer zone and rehabilitation and/or enhancement will be
      completed before a particular species returns.

. Rehabilitation and/or enhancement shall be required when                 new    uses     are
  authorized within wildlife buffer zones.

  (1) When a buffer zone has been altered or degraded in the past, it shall be
      rehabilitated to its natural condition to the maximum extent practicable.

  (2) When complete rehabilitation is not possible, such as when new
      structures permanently displace wildlife habitat, enhancement shall also
      be required.

  (3) Enhancement shall achieve no net loss of the integrity of the wildlife area
     or site.

  (4) Rehabilitation   and   enhancement   actions     shall   be   documented          in the
     wildlife management plan and shall include a map and text.

. The project applicant shall prepare and implement a 3-year monitoring plan
  when the affected wildlife area or site is occupied by a species that is listed
  as endangered or threatened pursuant to federal or state wildlife lists.

  (1) It shall include an annual report and shall track the status of the wildlife
     area or site and the success of rehabilitation and/or enhancement actions.

  (2) At the end of 3 years, rehabilitation          and   enhancement        efforts     may
      conclude if they are successful.

                                                                                 XX, XK 2010
                                                       Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Oniy)

                       20180010
Page 14-74

             (3) In instances where rehabilitation and enhancement efforts have failed, the
                 monitoring process shall be extended until the applicant satisfies the
                 rehabilitation and enhancement standards.

eigcetd Natural Resources (GMA Only}              9   C 1   * 0 0 41 0
                                                                                                  Page 14-75

D.   Rare Plants

     1.   Purpose

          a.   Ensure   that   new   uses   do   not   adversely   affect   plant    species    that     are,
               according to lists kept current by the Gorge Commission:

               (1) endemic to the Columbia River Gorge and vicinity,

               (2) listed as endangered or threatened              pursuant     to   federal     or     state
                   endangered species acts, or

               (3) listed as endangered or threatened on list (1) or list (2), by the Oregon
                   Natural Heritage Program. (For brevity, these species will be referred to
                   as "sensitive" plant species.)

          b. Encourage the protection of plant species that are classified "Review" {list 3},
             or "Watch" {list 4} by the Oregon Natural Heritage Program.

          c.   Enhance the natural habitat of rare plant species.

     2.   Sensitive Plant Buffer Zones:

          a. A 200 foot buffer zone shall be maintained around sensitive plants.                       Buffer
               zones shall remain in an undisturbed, natural condition.

          b.   Buffer zones may be reduced if a project applicant demonstrates that
               intervening topography, vegetation, manmade features, or natural plant
               habitat boundaries negate the need for a 200 foot radius.    Under no
               circumstances shall the buffer zone be less than 25 feet.

          c. Requests to reduce buffer zones shall be considered                     if a professional
             botanist or plant ecologist hired by the project applicant:

               (1) identifies the precise location of the sensitive plants,

               (2) describes the biology of the sensitive plants, and

               (3) demonstrates that the proposed use will not have any negative effects,
                   either direct or indirect, on the affected piants and the surrounding habitat
                   that is vital to their long-term survival.

               (4) All requests shall be prepared as a written report. Published literature
                   regarding the biology of the affected plants and recommendations
                   regarding their protection and management shall be cited. The report

                                                                     Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only}

                                     291°0010                                                  XX, OOK 2010
Page 14-76

                   shall include detailed maps and photographs.
         d.   The County shail submit all requests to reduce sensitive plant species buffer
              zones to the Oregon Natural Heritage Program.

              (1) The state heritage program will have 20 days from the date that such a
                   request   is mailed    to submit   written   comments   to the   County   Planning
                   Office.

              (2) The County shall record and address any written comments submitted by
                  the state heritage program in its development review order.

                (3) Based on the comments from the state heritage program, the County will
                    make a final decision on whether the reduced buffer zone is justified. If
                    the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the state
                    heritage program, the local government shall justify how it reached an
                   opposing conclusion.

    3.   Uses and Activities Permitted Within 1,000 Feet of a Sensitive Plant

         Except for uses permitted without review in Section 3.100 and 3.180(B) (Open
         Space) uses and activities authorized by the applicable zoning designation may
         be allowed within 1,000 feet of a sensitive plant subject to (4) below, Site Plans
         and Field Surveys, the remaining applicable sections of this Chapter and the
         following criteria:

         a.     Uses that are proposed within 1,000 feet of a sensitive               plant shall   be
                reviewed by the Oregon Natural Heritage Program.

                (1) The approximate locations of sensitive plants are shown         in the rare plant
                   species inventory.

                (2) State heritage staffs will help determine if a new use would invade the
                    buffer zone of sensitive plants.

                Site plans shall be submitted to the State Natural Heritage Program by the
                County.

                (1) The State Heritage staff will review the site plan and their field survey
                    records.

                (2) The State Heritage Office will identify the precise location of the affected
                    plants and delineate a 200 foot buffer zone on the project applicant's site
                   plan.

                (3) If the field survey records of the state heritage program are inadequate,
Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)
XX, XXXK 2010                                                   20150010
                                                                                         Page 14-77

          the project applicant shall hire a person with recognized expertise in
          botany or plant ecology to ascertain the precise location of the affected
          plants.

       The rare plant protection process may conclude if the local government, in
       consultation with the State Heritage Program, determines that the proposed
       use would be located outside of a sensitive plant buffer zone.

       New uses shail be prohibited within sensitive plant species                buffer zones,
       except for those uses that are allowed outright.

       If a proposed   use   must   be allowed   within   a sensitive plant buffer zone          in
       accordance with Chapter 6, Variances the project applicant shall prepare a
       protection and rehabilitation plan that complies with the standards in (7)
       below, Protection and Rehabilitation Plans.

       The County shall submit a copy of all field surveys and                  protection     and
       rehabilitation plans to the Oregon Natural Heritage Program.

       (1) The state heritage program will have 20 days from the date that a field
           survey is mailed to submit written comments to the County.

       (2) The County shall record and address any written comments submitted by
          the state heritage program in its development review order.

       Based on the comments from the State Heritage Program, the County will
       make a final decision on whether the proposed use would be consistent with
       the rare plant policies and guidelines. If the final decision contradicts the
       comments submitted by the state heritage program, the County shall justify
       how it reached an opposing conclusion.

. Site Plans and Field Surveys

  a.   In addition to the information required in all site plans, site plans for uses
       within 1,000 feet of a sensitive plant shall include a map prepared at a scale
       of 1 inch equals 100 feet (1:1,200), or a scale providing greater detail.

  b. A field survey to identify sensitive plants shall be required for:

       (1) land divisions that create four or more parcels;

       (2) recreation facilities that contain parking areas for more than 10 cars,
           overnight camping facilities, boat ramps, and visitor information and
           environmental education facilities;

                                                            Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)

                              20120010                             ;                 XX, XXXK 2010
Page 14-78

              (3) Public transportation facilities that are outside improved rights-of-way;

              (4) electric facilities, lines, equipment, and appurtenances that are 33 kilovolts
                  or greater; and

              (5) communications, water and sewer, and natural gas transmission (as
                  opposed to distribution) lines, pipes, equipment and appurtenances and
                  other project related activities, except when all of their impacts will occur
                  inside previously disturbed road, railroad or utility corridors, or existing
                  developed utility sites, that are maintained annually.                    .

              Field surveys shall cover all areas affected by the proposed use or recreation
              facility.

              (1) Field surveys shall be conducted by a person with recognized expertise in
                 botany or plant ecology hired by the project applicant.

              (2) Field surveys shall identify the precise location of the sensitive plants and
                  delineate a 200 foot buffer zone.

              (3) The results of a field surveys shall be shown on the site plan map.

    5.   Protection and Rehabilitation Plans

         Protection and rehabilitation plans shall minimize and offset unavoidable impacts
         that result from a new use that occurs within a sensitive plant buffer zone as the
         result of a variance granted according to Chapter 6. All plans shall meet the
         following guidelines:

         a.   Protection    and     rehabilitation   plans   shall   be   prepared   by   a   professional
              botanist or plant ecologist.

              The primary responsibility and cost of preparing protection and rehabilitation
              plans shall be borne by the applicant. Recognizing the limited number of
              situations in which an applicant will be forced to locate within a sensitive plant
              buffer area, the Forest Service has agreed to provide assistance in the
              preparation of these plans, to the greatest extent possible.

              Construction, protection, and rehabilitation activities shali occur during the
              time of the year when ground disturbance will be minimized and protection,
              rehabilitation, and replacement efforts will be maximized.

              Sensitive plants that will be destroyed shail be transplanted or replaced to the
              maximum extent practicable.

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only)

Oe OIRAN                                                             20190010
                                                                                     Page 14-79

  (1) Replacement is used here to mean the establishment or a particular plant
      species in areas of suitable habitat not affected by new uses.
  (2) Replacement      may    be   accomplished   by      seeds,      cuttings,     or   other
     appropriate methods.

  (3) Replacement shall occur as close to the original plant site as practicable.

  (4) The project applicant shall ensure that at least 75 percent of the
      replacement plants survive three years after the date they are planted.

. Sensitive plants and their surrounding habitat that will not be altered or
  destroyed shall be protected and maintained.    Appropriate protection and
  maintenance techniques shall be applied, such as fencing, conservation
  buffers, livestock management, and noxious weed control.

  Habitat of a sensitive plant that will be affected by temporary uses shall be
  rehabilitated to a natural condition.

. Protection efforts shall be implemented before construction activities begin.
  Rehabilitation efforts shali be implemented immediately after the plants and
  their surrounding habitat are disturbed.

. Protection and rehabilitation plans shall include maps, photographs, and text.
   The text shall:

  (1) Describe the biology of sensitive plant species that will be affected by a
      proposed use.

  (2) Explain the techniques that will be used to protect sensitive plants and
      their surrounding habitat that will not be altered or destroyed.

  (3) Describe the rehabilitation and enhancement actions that will minimize
      and offset the impacts that will result from a proposed use.

  (4) Include a 3-year monitoring, maintenance, and replacement program.
      The project applicant shall prepare and submit to the local government an
     annual   report   that   documents   milestones,      successes,      problems,       and
     contingency actions.

                                                        Chapter 14-Natural Resources (GMA Only}
                        20160010                                                  XX, XXXX 2010
Page 14-80

E.   Practicable Alternative Test

     An altemative site for a proposed use shall be considered practicable if it is available
     and the proposed use can be undertaken on that site after taking into consideration
     cost, technology, logistics, and overall project purposes.

     A practicable alternative does                 not    exist   if a     project    applicant      satisfactorily
     demonstrates all of the following:

     1. The basic purpose of the use cannot be reasonably accomplished using one or
         more other sites in the vicinity that would avoid or result in less adverse effects
         on wetlands, streams, ponds, lakes, riparian areas, wildlife, or plant areas and
         sites; and

         The basic purpose of the use cannot be reasonably accomplished by reducing
         its size, scope, configuration, or density as proposed, or by changing the design
         of the use in a way that would avoid or result in less adverse effects on wetlands,
         streams, ponds, lakes, riparian areas, wildlife or plant areas and sites.; and

         Reasonable        attempts        were   made    to remove       or accommodate        constraints that
         caused a project applicant to reject alternatives to the use as proposed.                              Such
         constraints       include     inadequate         infrastructure,     parcel    size,   and      land    use
         designations.   If a land use designation or recreation intensity class is a
         constraint, an applicant must request a management plan amendment to
         demonstrate that practicable alternatives do not exist.

F.   Public Interest Test

     The following factors shall be considered when determining if a proposed use is in
     the public interest:

     1. The extent of public need for the proposed use.

     2. The extent and permanence of beneficial or detrimental effects that the
        proposed use may have on the public and private uses for which the property is
        suited.

         The functions and size of the wetland, stream,                     pond, lake, or riparian area that
         may be affected.

         The economic value of the proposed use to the general area.

         The ecological value of the wetland, stream, pond, lake, or riparian area and
         probable effect on public health and safety, fish, plants, and wildlife.

COX          2010   Resources (GMA Only}                                    9 0 1 9 0 0 1 0
                                                                                             Page 14-81

SECTION   14.610         Natural Resources (SMA Only)

A. Water Resources (Wetlands, Streams, Ponds, Lakes, and Riparian Areas)

   4. Purpose - Protect and enhance the quantity and quality of water resources and
      their functions.

   2. All new developments and uses, as described in a site plan prepared by the
      applicant, shall be evaluated using the following guidelines to ensure that natural
      resources are protected from adverse effects. Comments from state and federal
      agencies shall be carefully considered.

      a. All Water Resources shall, in part, be protected by establishing undisturbed
         buffer zones as specified in (2)(a) and (b) below. These buffer zones are
         measured horizontally from a wetland, stream, lake, or pond boundary as
         defined below.

          (1) All buffer zones shall be retained undisturbed and in their natural
              condition, except as permitted with a Mitigation Plan as described in E
             below.

          (2) Buffer zones shall be measured outward from the bank full flow boundary
              for streams, the high water mark for ponds and lakes, the normal pool
              elevation for the Columbia River, and the wetland delineation boundary for
              wetlands on a horizontal scale that is perpendicular to the wetlands,
              stream, pond or lake boundary. On the main stem of the Columbia River
              above Bonneville Dam, buffer zones shall be measured landward from the
              normal pool elevation of the Columbia River. The following buffer zone
              widths shail be required:

             (a) A minimum 200 foot buffer on each wetland, pond, lake, and each
                bank of a perennial or fish bearing stream, some of which can be
                intermittent.

             (b) A 50-foot buffer zone along each bank                of intermittent      (including
                ephemeral), non-fish bearing streams.

             (c) Maintenance, repair, reconstruction and realignment of roads and
                 railroads within their rights-of-way shall be exempted from the
                 wetlands and riparian guidelines upon demonstration of all of the
                 following:

                   i.     The wetland within the right-of-way is a drainage ditch not part of a
                          larger wetland outside of the right-of-way.

                   ii.    The wetland is not critical habitat.

                                                                 Chapter 14-Natural Resources Ma   on)
                                  2 0 1 c 0 0 1 0
Page 14-82

                      iii. Proposed activities within the right-of-way               would     not adversely
                           affect a wetland adjacent to the right-of-way.

             (3) The buffer width shall be increased for the following:

                 (a) When      the channel     migration zone exceeds           the recommended         buffer
                      width, the buffer width shall extend to the outer edge of the channel
                      migration zone.

                 (b) When the frequently flooded area exceeds the recommended riparian
                     buffer zone width, the buffer width shall be extended to the outer edge
                     of the frequentiy flooded area.

                 (c) When an erosion or Jandslide hazard area exceeds the recommended
                     width of the buffer, the buffer width shall be extended to include the
                     hazard area.

             (4) Buffer zones can be reconfigured if a project applicant demonstrates all of
                 the following:

                 (a) the integrity and function of the buffer zones is maintained,

                 (b) the total buffer area on the development proposal is not decreased,

                 (c) the width reduction shall not occur within another buffer, and

                 (d) the buffer zone width is not reduced more than 50% at any particular
                     location.   Such features as intervening topography, vegetation, man
                      made     features,   natural piant or wildlife habitat boundaries,            and flood
                      plain characteristics could be considered.

             (5) Requests to reconfigure buffer zones shall be considered if an appropriate
                  professional (botanist, plant ecologist, wildlife biologist, or r hydrologist),
                  hired by the project applicant

                  (a) identifies the precise         location    of the sensitive   wildlife/plant or water
                      resource,

                  (b) describes      the   biology     of the     sensitive   wildlife/plant   or   hydrologic
                      condition of the water resource, and

                  (c) demonstrates that the proposed use will not have any negative effects,
                      either direct or indirect, on the affected wildlife/plant and their
                      surrounding habitat that is vital to their long-term survival or water
                      resource and its long term function.
Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)                         9 0 1 ray 0 0 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                       Page 14-83

     (6) The County shall submit all requests to re-configure sensitive wildlife/plant
         or water resource buffers to the Forest Service and the appropriate state
         agencies for review. All written comments shall be included in the project
        file.   Based   on   the comments   from   the   state   and   federal   agencies,      the
        County will make a final decision on whether the reconfigured buffer zones
        are justified. If the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the
        federal and state agencies, the County shall justify how it reached an
        opposing conclusion.

b. When a buffer zone is disturbed by a new use, it shall be replanted with ‘only
     native plant species of the Columbia River Gorge.

c.   The applicant shall be responsible for identifying all water resources and their
     appropriate buffers. (see above)

d. Wetlands Boundaries shall be delineated using the following:

     (1) The approximate location and extent of wetlands in the Scenic Area is
         shown on the National Wetlands Inventory (U. S. Department of the
         Interior 1987). In addition, the list of hydric soils and the soil survey maps
         shall be used as an indicator of wetlands. -

     (2) Some wetlands may not be shown on the wetlands inventory or soil
         survey maps. Wetlands that are discovered by the local planning staff
         during an inspection of a potential project site shail be delineated and
         protected.

     (3) The project applicant shall be responsible for determining the exact
         location of a wetlands boundary. Wetlands boundaries shail be delineated
         using the procedures specified in the ‘1987 Corps of Engineers Wetland
         Delineation Manual (on-line Edition)’.

     (4) All wetlands delineations shall be conducted by a professional who has
         been trained to use the federal delineation procedures, such as a Soil
         scientist, botanist, or wetlands ecologist.

e.   Stream, pond, and lake boundaries shall be delineated using the bank full
     flow boundary for streams and the high water mark for ponds and lakes. The
     project applicant shall be responsible for determining the exact location of the
     appropriate boundary for the water resource.

f.   The County may verify the accuracy of, and render adjustments to, a bank full
     flow, high water mark, normal pool elevation (for the Columbia River), or
     wetland boundary delineation. If the adjusted boundary is contested by the
     project applicant, the County shall obtain professional services, at the project

                                    9 0 1 G 0 0 1 0       Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                                  January 10, 2006
Page 14-84

            applicant's expense, or the County will ask for technical assistance from the
            Forest Service to render a final delineation.
         g. Buffer zones shall be undisturbed unless the following criteria have been
            satisfied:

             (1) The proposed use must have no practicable alternative as determined by
                 the practicable alternative test.

                  Those portions of a proposed use that have a practicable alternative will
                  not be located in wetlands, stream, pond, lake, and riparian areas and/or
                  their buffer zone.

             (2) Filling and draining of wetlands shall be prohibited with exceptions related
                  to public safety or restoration/enhancement activities as permitted when °
                  all of the following criteria have been met:

                  (a)A documented       public safety hazard exists or a_restoration/
                     enhancement project exists that would benefit the public and is
                     corrected or achieved only by impacting the wetland in question, and

                  (b) Impacts to the wetland       must be the last possible documented
                      alternative in fixing the   public safety concern or completing the
                      restoration/enhancement project, and

                  (c) The proposed project minimizes the impacts to the wetland.

             (3) Unavoidable impacts to wetlands and aquatic and riparian areas and their
                 buffer zones shall be offset by deliberate restoration and enhancement or
                 creation (wetlands only) measures as required by the completion of a
                 Mitigation Plan as described in E below.

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)                     2 0 1 q 0 0 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                                         Page 14-85

B. Wildlife and Plants

   1.   Purpose

        a.   Protect (ensure that new uses do not adversely affect, including cumulative
             effects) and enhance the wildlife and plant diversity of the Gorge.

        b.   Encourage the protection of plant species that are classified as “List 3
             (Review)" or "List 4 (Watch)" by the Oregon Natural Heritage Program.

        c.   Ensure that new uses do not adversely affect natural areas that are
             potentially eligible for the Oregon Register of Natural Heritage Resources.

   2. All new developments and uses, as described in a site plan prepared by the
      applicant, shall be evaluated using the following guidelines to ensure that natural
      resources are protected from adverse effects. Comments from state and federal
      agencies shall be carefully considered.

        a.   Protection   of    sensitive   wildlife/plant     areas   and      sites   shall    begin      when
             proposed     new    developments      or   uses     are   within    1000    ft of    a   sensitive
             wildlife/plant site and/or area.

             Sensitive Wildlife Areas and endemic plants are those areas depicted in the
             wildlife inventory and listed in the Priority Habitats Table below, including all
             Priority Habitats listed in this Chapter. The approximate locations of sensitive
             wildlife and/or plant areas and sites are shown in the wildlife and rare plant
             inventory.

        b. The County shail submit site plans (of uses that are proposed within 1,000
           feet of a sensitive wildlife and/or plant area or site) for review to the Forest
           Service and Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and Oregon Natural
           Heritage Program for plant issues.

        c. The Forest Service wildlife biologists and/or botanists, in consultation with the
           appropriate state biologists, shall review the site plan and their field survey
             records. They shall:

             (1) Identify/verify the precise location of the wildlife and/or plant area or site,

             (2) Determine if a field survey will be required,

             (3) Determine, based on the biology and habitat requirements of the affected
                 wildlife/plant species, if the proposed use would compromise the integrity
                 and function of or result in adverse affects (including cumulative effects)
                 to the wildlife or plant area or site. This would include considering the
                 time of year when wildlife or plant species are sensitive to disturbance,
                                            2 0 1 O 0 0 1 0             Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                                                January 10, 2006
Page 14-86

                 such as nesting, rearing seasons, or flowering season, and
             (4) Delineate the undisturbed 200 ft buffer on the site plan for sensitive plants
                 and/or the appropriate buffer for sensitive wildlife areas or sites, including
                  nesting, roosting and perching sites.

                 (a) Buffer zones can be reconfigured if a project applicant demonstrates
                     all of the following:

                      i.   the integrity and function of the buffer zones is maintained,

                      ii. the total buffer area on the development proposal is not decreased,

                      iii. the width reduction shall not occur within another buffer, and

                      iv. the buffer zone width is not reduced more than 50% at any
                          particular location. | Such features as intervening topography,
                          vegetation, man made features, natural plant or wildlife habitat
                          boundaries, and flood plain characteristics could be considered.

                 (b) Requests to reduce buffer zones shall be considered if an appropriate
                     professional (botanist, plant ecologist, wildlife biologist, or hydrologist),
                      hired by the project applicant,

                      i.   identifies the precise location of the sensitive wildlife/plant or water
                           resource,

                      ii. describes the biology of the sensitive wildlife/plant or hydrologic
                          condition of the water resource, and

                      iii. demonstrates that the proposed use will not have any negative
                           effects, either direct or indirect, on the affected wildlife/plant and
                           their surrounding habitat that is vital to their long-term survival or
                           water resource and its long term function.

                  (c) The County shall submit all requests to re-configure sensitive
                      wildlife/ptant or water resource buffers to the Forest Service and the
                      appropriate state agencies for review. Ail written comments shall be
                      included in the record of application and based on the comments from
                      the state and federal agencies, the County will make a final decision
                      on whether the reduced buffer zone is justified. If the final decision
                      contradicts the comments submitted by the federal and state agencies,
                      the County shall justify how it reached an opposing conclusion.

         d. The County, in consultation with the State and federal wildlife biologists
            and/or botanists, shall use the following criteria in reviewing and evaluating
            the site plan to ensure that the proposed developments or uses do not
Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
January 10, 2006                                                2   0 1   f) 0 0 1 0
                                                                                     Page 14-87

compromise the integrity and function of or result in adverse affects to the
wildlife or plant area or site:

(1) Published guidelines regarding the protection and management of the
    affected wildlife/plant species. Examples include: the Oregon Department
    of Forestry has prepared technical papers that include management
    guidelines for osprey and great blue heron; the Washington Department
    of Wildlife has prepared similar guidelines for a variety of species,
    including the western pond turtle, the peregrine falcon, and the Larch
    Mountain salamander (Rodrick and Milner 1991).

(2) Physical characteristics of the     subject     parcel     and      vicinity,   including
    topography and vegetation.

(3) Historic, current, and proposed     uses      in the     vicinity    of the     sensitive
    wildlife/plant area or site.

(4) Existing condition of the wildlife/plant area or site and the surrounding
    habitat and the useful life of the area or site.

(5) In areas of winter range, habitat components, such as forage, and thermal
    cover, important to the viability of the wildlife must be maintained or, if
    impacts are to occur, enhancement must mitigate the impacts so as to
    maintain overall values and function of winter range.

(6) The site plan is consistent with the "Oregon Guidelines for Timing of In-
    Water Work to Protect Fish and Wildlife Resources" (Oregon Department
    of Fish and Wildlife 2000).

(7) The site plan activities coincide with periods when fish and wildiife are
    least sensitive to disturbance. These would include, among others,
    nesting and brooding periods (from nest building to fledgling of young)
    and those periods specified.

(8) The site plan illustrates that new developments and uses, including
    bridges, culverts, and utility corridors, shall not interfere with fish and
    wildlife passage.

(9) Maintain, protect, and enhance the integrity and function of Priority
    Habitats (such as old growth forests, talus slopes, and oak woodlands) as
    listed on the following Priority Habitats Table. This includes maintaining
    structural, species, and age diversity, maintaining connectivity within and
    between plant communities, and ensuring that cumulative impacts are
   considered in documenting integrity and function.

                      2 0 1 ¢ 0 0 1 0                Chapter 14-Naturai Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                             January 10, 2006
Page 14-88

                                          PRIORITY HABITATS TABLE

             Priority Habitats                                             Criteria

         Aspen stands                     High fish and wildlife species diversity, limited availability, high
                                          vulnerability to habitat alteration.            ‘

         Caves                            Significant wildlife breeding habitat, limited availability, dependent
                                          species.

             Old-growth forest            High fish and wildlife density, species diversity, breeding habitat,
                                          seasonal ranges, and limited and declining availability, high
                                          vulnerability.

         Oregon white oak                 Comparatively high fish and wildlife density, species diversity,
         woodiands                        declining availability, high vulnerability

             Prairies and steppe          Comparatively high fish and wildlife density, species diversity,
                                          important breeding habitat, declining and limited availability, high
                                          vuinerability.

             Riparian                     High fish and wildlife density, species diversity, breeding habitat,
                                          movement corridor, high vulnerability, dependent species.

                                          High species density, high species diversity, important breeding
             Wetlands                     habitat and seasonal ranges, limited availability, high vulnerability.

                                          High fish and wildlife density, species diversity, limited availability,
                                          high vulnerability, dependent species.
             Snags and logs
                                          Limited availability, unique and dependent species, high
                                          vulnerability.
             Talus
                                          Significant breeding habitat, limited availability, dependent
                                          species.
             Cliffs
                                          Unique species habitat, limited availability, high vulnerability,
                                          dependent species.
             Dunes

         @. The wildlife/plant protection process may terminate if the County, in
            consultation with the Forest Service and state wildlife agency or Heritage
            program, determines

                 (1) the sensitive wildlife area or site is not active, or

                  (2) the proposed use is not within the buffer zones and would not compromise
                      the integrity of the wildlife/plant area or site, and

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
January 10, 2006                                                               20100010
                                                                                Page 14-89

 (3) the proposed use is within the buffer and could be easily moved out of the
     buffer by simply modifying the project proposal (site plan modifications). If
     the project applicant accepts these recommendations,               the local
     government     shall incorporate them into its development review  order and
     the wildlife/plant protection process may conclude.

  If the above measures fail to eliminate the adverse affects, the proposed
  project shall be prohibited, unless the project applicant can meet the
  Practicable Alternative Test in D below, and prepare a Mitigation Plan
  pursuant to E below to offset the adverse effects by deliberate restoration
  and enhancement.

. The County shall submit a copy of all field surveys (if completed) and
  mitigation plans to the Forest Service and appropriate state agencies. The
  County shall include all comments in the record of application and address
  any written comments       submitted   by the state and federal wildlife
  agency/heritage programs in its development review order.

 Based on the comments from the state and federal wildlife agency/heritage
 program, the County shall make a final decision on whether the proposed use
 would be consistent with the wildlife/plant policies and guidelines. If the final
 decision contradicts the comments submitted by the state and federal wildlife
 agency/heritage program, the County shall justify how it reached an opposing
 conclusion.

. The County shall require the project applicant to revise the mitigation plan as
  necessary to ensure that the proposed use would not adversely affect a
  sensitive wildlife/plant area or site.

                             9 0 1 Q 0 0 1 0       Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only}
                                                                          January 10, 2006
Page 14-90

C. Soil Productivity

      Soil productivity shall be protected using the following criteria:

      1. A description or illustration showing                   the    mitigation   measures       to control    soil
         erosion and stream sedimentation.

      2.    New developments and land uses shall control all soil movement within the area
            shown on the site plan.

      3. The            soil area   disturbed      by new    development      or land   uses,   except     for new
            cultivation, shall not exceed 15 percent of the project area.

      4. Within 1 year of project completion, 80 percent of the project area with surface
            disturbance shall be established with effective native ground cover species or
            other soil-stabilizing methods              to prevent      soil erosion    until the area      has    60
            percent vegetative cover.

D. Practicable Alternative Test

      An alternative site for a proposed use. shall be considered practicable if it is available
      and the proposed use can be undertaken on that site after taking into consideration
      cost, technology, logistics, and overall project purposes.

      A practicable alternative does                   not    exist    if a   project   applicant     satisfactorily
      demonstrates all of the following:

      4. The basic purpose of the use cannot be reasonably accomplished using one or
            more other sites in the vicinity that would avoid or result in less adverse effects
            on wetlands, ponds, lakes, riparian areas, wildlife or plant areas and/or sites.

      2.    The basic purpose of the use cannot be reasonably accomplished by reducing
            its proposed size, scope, configuration, or density, or by changing the design of
            the use in a way that would avoid or result in less adverse effects on wetlands,
            ponds, lakes, riparian areas, wildlife or plant areas and/or sites.

      3.    Reasonable attempts were made to remove or accommodate constraints that
            caused a project applicant to reject alternatives to the proposed use. Such
            constraints include inadequate infrastructure, parcel size, and land use
            designations. If a land use designation or recreation intensity class is a
            constraint, an applicant must request a Management Plan amendment to
            demonstrate that practicable alternatives do not exist.

Chapter    14-Natural     Ri        (SMA   Only)
Jenvary 10,2006                                                        20160010
                                                                                              Page 14-91

E.   Mitigation Plan

     1.   Mitigation Plan shall be prepared when:

          a.    The proposed development or use is within a buffer zone (wetland, pond,
                lakes, riparian areas, wildlife or plant areas and/or sites)

          b.    There is no practicable     alternative   according   to   D   below,     Practicable
                Alternative Test.

     2.   In all cases, Mitigation Plans are the responsibility of the applicant and shall be
          prepared by an appropriate professional (botanist/ecologist for plant sites, a
          wildlife/fish biologist for wildlife/fish sites, and a qualified professional for water
          resource sites).

     3.   The    primary purpose of this information is to provide a basis for the project
          applicant to redesign the proposed use in a manner that protects sensitive water
          resources,  and   wildlife/plant areas and     sites, that maximizes       his/her
          development options, and that mitigates, through   restoration, enhancement,   and
          replacement measures, impacts to the water resources and/or wildlife/piant area
          or site and/or buffer zones.

     4.   The applicant shall submit the mitigation plan to the County. The County shall
          submit a copy of the mitigation plan to the Forest Service, and appropriate state
          agencies. If the final decision contradicts the comments submitted by the state
          and federal wildlife agency/heritage program, the County shall justify how it
          reached an opposing conclusion.

     5.   A project applicant shall demonstrate      sufficient fiscal, technical,  and
          administrative competence to successfully execute a mitigation plan involving
          wetland creation.

     6.   Mitigation plans shall include maps, photographs, and text. The text shall:_

          a.    Describe the biology and/or function of the sensitive resources (eg.
                Wildlife/plant species, or wetland) that will be affected by a proposed use. An
                ecological assessment of the sensitive resource to be altered or destroyed
                and the condition of the resource that will result after restoration will be
                required. Reference published protection and management guidelines.

          b.    Describe the physical characteristics of the subject parcel, past, present, and
                future uses, and the past, present, and future potential impacts to the
                sensitive resources. Include the size, scope, configuration, or density of new
                uses being proposed within the buffer zone.

                                         90160 cid                Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only
Page 14-92

         c.   Explain the techniques that will be used to protect the sensitive resources
              and their surrounding habitat that will not be altered or destroyed (for
              examples, delineation of core habitat of the sensitive wildlife/plant species
              and key components that are essential to maintain the long-term use and
              integrity of the wildlife/plant area or site).

         d. Show how restoration, enhancement, and replacement (creation) measures
            will be applied to ensure that the proposed use results in minimum feasible
              impacts to sensitive resources, their buffer zones, and associated habitats.

         e.   Show how the proposed restoration, enhancement, or replacement (creation)
              mitigation measures are NOT alternatives to avoidance.             A proposed
              development/use must first avoid a sensitive resource,   and  only  if this is not
              possible should restoration, enhancement, or creation be considered as
              mitigation. In reviewing mitigation plans, the County, appropriate state
              agencies, and Forest Service shall critically examine all proposals to ensure
              that they are indeed last resort options.

    7. Ata minimum, a project applicant shall provide to the County a progress report
         every   3-years   that   documents    milestones,    successes,    problems,   and
         contingency actions.   Photographic monitoring. stations. shall be established and
         photographs shall be used to monitor all mitigation progress.

    8. A final monitoring report shall be submitted to the County for review upon
  ,    completion of the restoration, enhancement, or replacement activity. This
         monitoring report shall document successes, problems encountered, resource
         recovery, status of any sensitive wildlife/plant species and shall demonstrate the
         success of restoration and/or enhancement actions.                The County shall submit
         copies of the monitoring         report to the Forest Service; who shall offer technical
         assistance to the County in helping to evaluate the completion of the mitigation
         plan. In instances where restoration and enhancement efforts have failed, the
         monitoring process shall be extended until the applicant satisfies the restoration
         and enhancement guidelines.              ;

    9,   Mitigation measures to offset impacts to resources and/or buffers shall result in
         no net loss of water quality, natural drainage, fish/wildlife/plant habitat, and water
         resources by addressing the following:

         a. Restoration and enhancement efforts shall be completed no later than one
            year after the sensitive resource or buffer zone has been altered or
            destroyed, or as soon thereafter as is practicable.

         b. All natural vegetation within the buffer zone shall be retained to the greatest
            extent practicable. Appropriate protection and maintenance techniques shall
            be applied, such as fencing, conservation buffers, livestock management,

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
January 10, 2006
                                                                   2   0   1   G   0   0   4   0
                                                                                            Page 14-93

  and    noxious      weed   control.    Within     five years,      at least 75 percent of the
  replacement vegetation must survive. All plantings must be with native plant
  species that replicate the original vegetation community.

. Habitat that will be affected by either temporary or permanent uses shall be
  rehabilitated to a natural condition. Habitat shall be replicated in composition,
  structure, and function, including tree, shrub and herbaceous species, snags,
  pool-riffle ratios, substrata, and structures, such as large woody debris and
  boulders.

. If this standard is not feasible or practical because of technical constraints, a
  sensitive resource of equal or greater benefit may be substituted, provided
  that no net loss of sensitive resource functions occurs and provided the
  County, in consultation with the appropriate State and Federal agency,
  determine that such substitution is justified.

. Sensitive plants that will be destroyed shall be transplanted or replaced, to
  the maximum extent practicable. Replacement is used here to mean the
  establishment of a particular plant species in areas of suitable habitat not
  affected by new uses. Replacement may be accomplished by seeds,
  cuttings, or other appropriate methods.

  Replacement shall occur as close to the original plant site as practicable. The
  project applicant shall ensure that at least 75 percent of the replacement
  plants survive 3 years after the date they are planted

  Nonstructural controls and natural processes shall be used to the greatest
  extent practicable.

  (1) Bridges, roads, pipeline and utility corridors, and other water crossings
      shall be minimized and should serve multiple purposes and properties.

  (2) Stream channels shall not be placed in culverts unless absolutely
      necessary for property access. Bridges are preferred for water crossings
      to reduce disruption to hydrologic and biologic functions. Culverts shall
      only be permitted if there are no practicable alternatives as demonstrated
      by the ‘Practical Alternative Test’.

  (3) Fish passage shall be protected from obstruction.

  (4) Restoration of fish passage should occur wherever possible.

  (5) Show location and nature of temporary and permanent control measures
      that shall be applied to minimize erosion and sedimentation when riparian
        areas   are    disturbed,   including     slope   netting,    berms   and    ditches,    tree

                                                               Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                                       January 10, 2006
                               2 0 1 a 0 0 1 0
Page 14-94

                   protection, sediment barriers, infiltration systems, and culverts.

              (6) Groundwater and surface water quality will not be degraded by the
                  proposed use.   Natural hydrologic conditions shall be maintained,
                   restored, or enhanced in such a manner that replicates natural conditions,
                   including current patterns (circulation, velocity, volume, and normal water
                   fluctuation), natural stream channel and shoreline dimensions and
                   materials, including slope, depth, width, length, cross-sectional profile,
                   and gradient.

              (7) Those portions of a proposed       use that are not water-dependent or that
                   have a practicable alternative will be located outside of stream, pond, and
                   lake buffer zones.

              (8) Streambank and shoreline stability shall be maintained or restored with
                  natural revegetation.

              (9) The size of restored, enhanced, and replacement (creation) wetlands shall
                  equal or exceed the following ratios. The first number specifies the
                  required acreage of replacement wetlands, and the second number
                  specifies the acreage of wetlands altered or destroyed.

                   Restoration: 2: |
                   Creation: 3: |
                   Enhancement: 4: |

         g. Wetland creation mitigation shall be deemed complete when the wetland is
            self-functioning for 5 consecutive years. Self-functioning is defined by the
            expected function of the wetland as written in the mitigation plan.      The
            monitoring report shall be submitted to the County to ensure compliance.
            The Forest Service, in consultation with appropriate state agencies, shall
            extend technical assistance to the County to help evaluate such reports and
            any subsequent activities associated with compliance.

         h. Wetland restoration/enhancement can be mitigated successfully by donating
            appropriate funds to a non-profit wetland conservancy or land trust with
            explicit instructions that those funds are to be used specifically to purchase
            protection easements or fee title protection of appropriate wetlands acreage
            in or adjacent to the Columbia River Gorge meeting the ratios given above in
            (f)(9) above. These transactions shall be explained in detail in the Mitigation
            Plan and shall be fully monitored and documented in the monitoring report.

Chapter 14-Natural Resources (SMA Only)
January 10, 2006
                                                               9 0120010
                                                                                                          Page 14-95

SECTION        14.700   Recreation Resources (GMA Only)

A.   Purpose

     1.   Protect and enhance recreation resources consistent with Indian treaty rights.

     2.   Protect scenic,     natural,   cultural   and   recreation     resources      when     providing       new
          recreation opportunities.

B. Recreation Intensity Classes (RIC)

     The following uses are permitted in the applicable Recreation Intensity Class
     designation, subject to compliance with Subsections (C) Approval Criteria for
     Recreation Uses and (D) Facility Design Standards for all Recreation Projects.

     1.   Recreation Intensity Class 1

             Parking areas for a maximum of 10 cars for any allowed uses in Recreation
             Intensity Class 1.

             Trails for hiking, equestrian and mountain biking use.

             Pathways for pedestrian and bicycling use.

             Trailheads      (with   provisions     for   hitching     rails   and    equestrian      trailers     at
             trailheads accommodating equestrian use).

             Scenic viewpoints and overlooks.

             Wildlife/botanical viewing and nature study areas.

           . River access areas.

             Simple interpretive signs and/or displays, not to exceed a total of 50 square
             feet.

             Entry name signs not to exceed 10 square feet per sign.

             Boat docks, piers or wharfs.

             Picnic areas.

             Restrooms/comfort facilities.

                                          20190010                      Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (GMA Only)
                                                                                                    January 10, 2006
Page 14-96

    2.   Recreation Intensity Class 2

                  All uses permitted in Recreation Intensity Class 1.

         b. Parking areas for a maximum of 25 cars, including campground                   units. to
            serve any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 2.

                  Simple interpretive signs and displays, not to exceed a total of 100 square
                  feet.

                  Entry name signs not to exceed 20 square feet per sign.

                  Boat ramps, not to exceed two lanes.

         f.       Campgrounds for 20 units or less, tent sites only.

    3.   Recreation Intensity Class 3

                  All uses permitted in Recreation Intensity Classes 1 and 2.

         b. Parking areas for a maximum of 75 cars, including campground units, for any
                  allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 3.

                  Interpretive signs, displays and/or facilities.

                  Visitor information and environmental education signs, displays or facilities.

                  Entry name signs not to exceed 32 square feet per sign.

                  Boat ramps, not to exceed three lanes.

                  Concession stands, pursuant to applicable policies in this chapter.

                  Campgrounds for 50 individual units or less for tents and/or recreational
                  vehicles, with a total density of no more than 10 units per acre (density to be
                  measured based on total size of recreation facility and may include required
                  buffer and setback areas). Class 3 campgrounds may also include one group
                  campsite area, in addition to the individual campground units or parking area
                  maximums allowed as described herein.

    4.   Recreation Intensity Class 4

                  All uses permitted in Recreation Intensity Classes 1, 2, and 3.

         b. Parking areas for            a maximum   of 250 cars, including campground    units, for
              -         R         ‘GMA Onl:
Sanuary 10206                                                   20120010
                                                                                                       Page 14-97

             any allowed uses in Recreation Intensity Class 4.

             Horseback riding stabies and associated facilities.

             Entry name signs, not to exceed 40 square feet per sign.

             Boat ramps.

             Campgrounds for 175 individual units or less for tents and/or recreation
             vehicles with a total density of no more than 10 units per acre (density to be
             measured based on total size of recreation facility and may include required
             buffer and setback areas). Class 4 campgrounds may also include up to 3
             group campsite areas, in addition to individual campsite units or parking area
             maximums allowed as described herein.

C. Approval Criteria for Recreation Uses

   For all proposed        recreation projects outside of Public or Commercial                     Recreation
   designations,     project     applicants   shall    demonstrate       compliance      with    the following
   criteria (if applicable) as a condition of project approval:

   1. Complete a Scenic Area Review.

   2. Cumulative effects of proposed recreation projects on landscape settings shall
      be based on the stated "compatible recreation use" for the designated landscape
      setting in which the proposed project is located.

   3.   For proposed recreation projects in or adjacent to lands designated Large or
        Small-Scale Agriculture, Commercial Forest Land, or Large or Small Woodland:

        a.   The   use   would    not seriously       interfere with    accepted      forest    or agricultural
             practices on surrounding lands devoted to forest or farm uses. Provision of
             on-site buffers may be used to partially or fully comply with this criterion,
             depending upon project design and/or site conditions.

             A declaration has been signed by the project applicant or owner and recorded
             with County deeds and- records specifying that the applicant or owner is
             aware that operators are entitled to carry on accepted forest or farm practices
             on lands designated Large or Small-Scale Agriculture, Commercial                            Forest
             Land or Large or Small Woodland.

   4.   For proposed       projects including facilities for outdoor fires for cooking or other
        purposes or proposed campgrounds:

             The project applicant shall demonstrate that a sufficient quantity of water
             necessary for fire suppression (as determined pursuant to applicable fire

                                      2 0     + 0 0 1 0                Chapter 14-Recreation Resources fom,   2006
Page 14-98

              codes or the County fire marshall) is readily available to the proposed facility,
              either through connection to a community water system                          or on-site wells,
              storage tanks, sumps, ponds or similar storage devices.

         b. If connection to a community water system is proposed, the project applicant
              shall demonstrate that the water system              has adequate capacity to meet the
              facility's emergency fire suppression needs without adversely affecting the
              remainder of the water system with respect to fire suppression capabilities.

         c.   In order to provide access for fire-fighting equipment, access drives shall be
              constructed to a minimum of 12 feet in width and a maximum grade of 12
              percent. Access drives shall be maintained to a level that is passable to fire-
              fighting equipment.

    5.   For proposed trail or trailhead projects:            compliance with applicable trail policies
         in the Management Plan.

    6.   For proposed projects providing boating or windsurfing access to the Columbia
         River or its tributaries: compliance with applicable "River Access and Protection
         of Treaty Rights" objectives in the Management Plan.

    7.   Proposed projects on public lands or proposed projects providing access to the
         Columbia River or its tributaries shall comply with guidelines for protection of
         tribal treaty rights, as defined in Sections 14.800 and 14.810, Indian Tribal Treaty
         Rights and Consultation.

    8.   Proposed projects which include interpretation of natural or cultural resources
         shall demonstrate that the interpretive facilities will not adversely affect natural or
         cultural   resources      and       that   appropriate   and    necessary      resource       protection
         measures shall be employed.

    9.   Proposed    Recreation   Intensity Class 4                     projects      (except    for     projects
         predominantly devoted to boat access) shall:

         a.   Demonstrate that the project accommodates provision of mass transportation
              access to the site.

         b. The number and size. of the mass transportation facilities shail reflect the
              physical capability of the site.

         c. This     mass     transportation         access   requirement       may     be   waived      upon   a
              demonstration      that provision of such facilities would           result in overuse of the
              site, either degrading the quality of the recreation experience or adversely
              affecting other resources at the site.

Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (GMA Only)                              2 0 1   5 0 0 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                             Page 14-99

D. Facility Design Standards for All Recreation Projects

   1.   Recreation facilities which are not resource-based in nature may be included at
        sites providing resource-based recreation uses consistent with the standards and
        criteria contained herein, as long as such facilities comprise no more than one-
        third of the total land area dedicated to recreation uses and/or facilities.
        Required landscaped buffers may be included in calculations of total land area
        dedicated to recreation uses and/or facilities.

        The facility design standards contained herein are intended to apply to individual
        recreation facilities. For the purposes of these standards, a recreation facility is
        considered a cluster or grouping of recreational developments or improvements
        located in relatively close proximity to one another.

        To be considered    a separate facility from other developments         or improvements
        within the same Recreation Intensity Class, recreation developments or
        improvements must be separated by at least one-quarter mile of undeveloped
        land (excluding trails, pathways, or access roads) from such developments or
        improvements.

        Parking areas, access roads, and campsites shall be sited and designed to fit
        into the existing natural contours as much as possible, both to minimize ground-
        disturbing grading activities and utilize topography to screen parking areas and
        associated structures.     Parking areas, access roads, and campsites shall be
        sited and set back sufficiently from bluffs so as to be visually subordinate as
        seen from Key Viewing Areas.

        Existing vegetation, particularly mature trees, shall be maintained to the
        maximum extent practicable, and utilized to screen parking areas and campsites
        from Key Viewing Areas and satisfy requirements for perimeter and interior
        landscaped buffers.

        Parking areas providing over 50 spaces shail be divided into discrete “islands”
        separated by unpaved, landscaped buffer areas.

        Lineal frontage of parking areas and campsite loops to Scenic Travel Corridors
        shall be minimized to the greatest extent practicable.

        Ingress/egress points shall be consolidated to the maximum extent practicable,
        providing for adequate emergency access pursuant to applicable fire and safety
        codes.

        Signage shall be limited to that necessary to provide relevant, recreation or
        facility information, interpretive information, vehicular and pedestrian direction,
                                 2   0 1   f 0 0 1 0       Chapter 14-Recreation Resourcesmary   10, 2005
Page 14-100

          and for safety purposes.

    9.    Innovative designs and materials which reduce visual impacts (such as “turf
          blocks" instead of conventional asphalt paving) shall be encouraged through
          incentives such as additional allowable parking spaces and reduce required
          minimum interior or perimeter landscaped buffers.       Upon determination that
          potential visual impacts have been substantially reduced by use of such designs
          and materials, the County shall allow either reductions in required minimum
          interior or perimeter landscape buffers up to 50 percent of what would otherwise
          be required, or additional parking spaces not to exceed                         10 percent of what would
          otherwise be permitted.

    10.All structures shall be designed such that height, exterior colors, reflectivity,
        mass and siting result in the structures blending with and not noticeably
        contrasting their setting.

    11.Landscape buffers around the perimeter of parking areas accommodating more
       than 10 vehicles shall be provided. Minimum required widths are 5 feet for 20
          vehicles or less, 20 feet for 50 vehicles or less, 30 feet for 100 vehicles or less,
          and 40 feet for 250 vehicles or less.

    12.Interior landscaped buffers breaking up continuous areas of parking shall be
        provided for any parking areas over 50 spaces in size. The minimum width of
        interior landscaped buffers between each parking lot of 50 spaces or less shall
        be 20 feet.

    43.Within required perimeter and interior landscaped buffer areas, a minimum of
       one tree of at least 6 feet in height shall be planted for every 10 lineal feet as
       averaged for the entire perimeter width. A minimum of 25 percent of planted
       species in perimeter buffers shall be coniferous to provide screening during the
          winter.         Project       applicants       are   encouraged    to   place    such   trees   in   random
          groupings approximating natural conditions. In addition to the required trees,
          landscaping shall include appropriate shrubs, groundcover and other plant
          maierials.

    14.Minimum required perimeter landscape buffer widths for parking areas or
       campgrounds may be reduced by as much as 50 percent, at the discretion of the
       County, if existing vegetation stands and/or existing topography are utilized such
       that the development is not visible from any Key Viewing Area.

    15.Grading or soil compaction within the "drip line” of existing mature trees shall be
          avoided to the maximum                      extent practicable, to reduce risk of root damage           and
          associated tree mortality.

    16.All parking areas and campsites shall be set back from Scenic Travel Corridors,

Caen sano                      Nemources (GMA Only                          20150010
         44-1   reation   Ri            ‘GMA    Ont
                                                                                                       Page 14-101

      and the Columbia River and its major tributaries at least 100 feet.

      a.   Required   perimeter landscaped              buffers may     be included when           calculating
           such setbacks.

      b. Setbacks from rivers shall be measured from the ordinary high water mark.

      c.   Setbacks from Scenic Travel Corridors shall be measured from the edge of
           road pavements.

   17.Project applicants shall utilize measures and equipment necessary for the proper
       maintenance and survival of all vegetation utilized to meet the landscape
       standards contained herein, and shall be responsible for such maintenance and
       survival.

   18.All parking areas shall be set back from property boundaries by at least 50 feet.
       All campsites and associated facilities shall be set back from property
       boundaries by at least 100 feet.

   19.All proposed projects at levels consistent with Recreation Intensity Class 4
       (except proposals predominantly devoted to boat access) shall comply with C(9)
     - above regarding provision of mass transportation access.

E. Variances and Plan Amendments

   1. The County may grant a variance to the setback and buffer requirements
      contained in this Chapter in accordance with Chapter 6 and upon findings that
      the following conditions exist:

      a. The proposed project is a public use, resource-based recreation facility
         providing or supporting either recreational access to the Columbia River and
         its tributaries, or recreational opportunities associated with a Scenic Travel
         Corridor;

      b. All reasonable measures to redesign the proposed project to comply with
         required setbacks and buffers have been explored, and application of those
           setbacks   and   buffers would        prohibit a viable      recreation     use    of the site as
         proposed;
      c. Resource impacts have been mitigated to less than adverse levels through
         design provisions and mitigation measures.

      d. The variance is the minimum necessary to accommodate the use.

  2. The    County    may    grant     a variance       of up to 10 percent to the standards                    of
      Recreation      Intensity      Class   4    for    parking      and   campground           units      upon

                                  9 0 1 &: 0 0 1 0                    apter 14-R ecreation
                                                                   Chapter             ition Ri esos     ome,
                                                                                                         GMAO01ony)
Page 14-102

          demonstration that:
          (The provisions of Chapter 6, Variances shall not apply)

              Demand and use levels for the proposed activity(s), particularly in the area
              where the site is proposed, are high and expected to remain so and/or
              increase. Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP) data
              and data from Scenic Area recreation demand studies shall be relied upon to
              meet this criterion in the absence of current applicable studies.

              The proposed use is dependent on resources present at the site.

              Reasonable alternative sites, including those in nearby Urban Areas, offering
              similar opportunities have been evaluated and it has been demonstrated that
              the proposed use cannot be adequately accommodated elsewhere.

              The proposed use is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies for
              recreation in the Management Plan.

              Through site design and/or mitigation measures, the proposed use can be
              implemented without adversely affecting scenic, natural or cultural resources,
              and adjacerit land uses.

              Through site design and/or mitigation measures, the proposed      use can be
              implemented without affecting treaty rights.

     3.   Proposals to change the Recreation Intensity Class of an area to a different
          class shall require a plan amendment, pursuant to Policies 1 through 4 in
          "Amendment of the Management Plan" (Part IV, Chapter 1, Gorge Commission
          Role) of the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge Nationai Scenic
          Area.

F.   Proposed development on properties Adjacent to Listed Recreation Sites

     Recreation sites shall be protected from adjacent uses that would detract from their
     use and enjoyment. If new buildings or structures may detract from the use and
     enjoyment of established recreation sites on adjacent parcels, an appropriate buffer
     shall be established between the building/structure and the parcel.

Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (GMA Only)                2 0 1 S 0 0 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                                       Page 14-103

SECTION      14.710   Recreation Resources (SMA Only)

The following standards apply to the lands in the Special Management Area:

A. If a  standard or condition of this subsection is more                           restrictive     than    other
   subsections of this section, this subsection is controlling;

   New developments and land uses shall not displace existing recreational use.

   Protect recreation resources from adverse effects by evaluating new developments
   and land uses as proposed in the site plan. An analysis of both on- and off-site
   cumulative effects shall be required.

   New pedestrian or equestrian             trails shall    not have          motorized    uses,    except     for
   emergency services.

   Mitigation measures shall be provided to preclude adverse effects on the recreation
   resource.

   The facility standards contained herein are intended to apply to individual recreation
   facilities. For the purposes of these standards, a recreation facility is considered a
   cluster   or   grouping    of    recreational    developments         or     improvements         located    in
   relatively close proximity to one another.            Recreation developments    or
   improvements: to be considered a    separate facility   from  other developments or
   improvements within the same Recreation Intensity Class must be separated by at
   least one-quarter mile of undeveloped land (excluding trails, pathways, or access
   roads) from such developments or improvements.

   New development and reconstruction of scenic routes, shall include provisions for
   bicycle lanes.

   New interpretive or education programs and/or facilities shall follow the
   recommendations of the "Interpretive Strategy for the Columbia River Gorge
   National Scenic Area."

   Only natural resource-based recreation shall be allowed.

   Recreation resources shall be protected by limiting development and uses as per
   the Recreation Intensity Classes.

   Recreation Intensity      Classes - (RIC

   The following      uses    are    permitted     in the   applicable        Recreation     Intensity     Class
   designation.

                                      2 0 1 & 0 0 1 0              Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                                                   January 10, 2006
Page 14-104

    1.   intensity Class 1

         Emphasis is to provide opportunities for semi-primitive recreation opportunities.

         a.   Uses permitted are those in which people participate in outdoor activities to
              realize experiences            such   as   solitude,   tension   reduction,      and   nature
              appreciation.

         b. Maximum site design capacity shall not exceed 35 people at one time on the
            site. Maximum design capacity for parking areas shall be 10 vehicles.

         c.   The following uses may be permitted:

              (1) Trails and trailheads.

              (2) Parking areas.

              (3) Dispersed campsites accessible only by a trail.

              (4) Viewpoints and overlooks.

              (5) Picnic areas.

              (6) Signs.

              (7) Interpretive exhibits and displays.

              (8) Restrooms.

    2.   Intensity Class 2

         Emphasis is to provide semi-primitive recreation opportunities.

         a.   Permitted    uses are those that provide settings where people can participate
              in activities such as physical fitness, outdoor learning, relaxation, and escape
              from noise and crowds.

         b. The maximum site design capacity shall not exceed 70 people at one time on
            the site. The maximum design capacity shall be 25 vehicles.

         c. All uses permitted in Class 1 are permitted in Class 2.                     The following uses
            may also be permitted:

              (1) Campground with vehicle access.
                                                                                   go
Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (SMA Only}                                 2 0 1   ~ 0 0 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                          Page 14-105

          (2) Boat anchorages designed for no more than 10 boats at one time.
          (3) Swimming areas.

3.   Intensity Class 3

     Emphasis is on facilities with design themes emphasizing the natural qualities of
     the area.    Developments     are complementary     to the natural landscape,         yet can
     accommodate moderate numbers of people.

     a.   Permitted uses are those in which people can participate in activities to
          realize experiences such as group socialization, nature appreciation,
          relaxation, cultural learning, and physical activity.

          Maximum site design capacity shall not exceed 250 people at the site. The
          maximum design capacity shall be 50 vehicles. The GMA vehicle capacity
          level of 75 vehicles would be approved if enhancement or mitigation
          measures for scenic, cultural, or natural resources are approved for at least
          10% of the site.

          Accommodation of facilities for mass transportation (bus parking, etc.) shall
          be required for all new (Recreation Intensity Class 3 day-use recreation sites,
          except for sites predominantly devoted to boat access.

          All uses permitted in Classes 1 and 2 are permitted in Class 3. The following
          uses may also be permitted:

          (1) Campgrounds improvement          may    include   water,    power,     sewer,      and
              sewage dump stations.

          (2) Boat anchorages designed for not more than 15 boats.

          (3) Public visitor, interpretive, historic, and environmental education facilities.

          (4) Ful service restrooms, may include showers.

          (5) Boat ramps.

          (6) Riding stables.

4.   Intensity Class 4

     Emphasis is for providing road natural, rural,               and    suburban       recreation
     opportunities with a high level of social interaction.

          Permitted uses are those in which people can participate in activities to
          realize experiences such as socialization, cultural and natural history
                                                           Chapter 14-Recreation Resources {SMA Only)
                                        0010                                          January 10, 2006
                                901%
Page 14-106

              appreciation, and physical activity.

              The maximum design capacity shall not exceed 1,000 people at one time on
              the site. The maximum design capacity for parking areas shall be 200
              vehicles. The GMA vehicle capacity level of 250 vehicles would be approved
              if enhancement         or      mitigation       measures      for       scenic,    cultural,     or   natural
              resources are approved for at least 20% of the site.

              Accommodation of facilities for mass transportation (bus parking, etc.) shall
              be required for all new Recreation Intensity Class 4 day-use recreation sites,
              except for sites predominantly devoted to boat access.

              All uses permitted in Classes 1, 2, and 3 are permitted in Class 4.

              The County may grant a variance of up to 10 percent to the guidelines of
              Recreation Intensity Class 4 for parking and campground units upon
              demonstration that all of the following conditions exist:
              (The provisions of Chapter 6, Variances shall not apply)

              (1) Demand and use levels for the proposed activity(s), particularly in the area
                 where      the site is proposed,             are high and. expected             to remain so and/or
                  increase.      Statewide Comprehensive Outdoor Recreation Plan (SCORP)
                 data and data from National Scenic Area recreation demand                                   studies shall
                 be relied upon to meet the criterion in the absence of current applicable
                 Studies.

              (2) The proposed use is dependent on resources present at the site.

              (3) Reasonable alternative sites offering similar opportunities, including those
                  in Urban Areas, have been evaluated, and it has been demonstrated that
                 the proposed use cannot be adequately accommodated elsewhere.

              (4) The proposed       use is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies in
                 this chapter.                            :

              (5) Through site design and/or mitigation measures, the proposed use can be
                  implemented without adversely affecting scenic, natural, or cultural
                  resources and adjacent land uses.

              (6) Though site design and/or mitigation measures, the proposed use can be
                  implemented without affecting treaty rights.

              Mass transportation shall be considered and implemented, if feasible, for all
              proposed variances to Recreation Intensity Class 4.

L.   Proposals     to   change     the    recreation          intensity   class       of an     area   shall    require   a

Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (SMA Only)
January 10, 2006
                                                                                  2   0 1     * 0 0 1 0
                                                                                     Pago 14-107

 Management Plan amendment pursuant to policies listed in Section 9.090 of this
 Ordinance and in accordance with applicable Gorge Commission Rules.

. Proposed development on properties Adjacent to Listed Recreation Sites

‘Recreation sites shall be protected from adjacent uses that would detract from their
 use and enjoyment. If new buildings or structures may detract from the use and
 enjoyment of established recreation sites on adjacent parcels, an appropriate buffer
 shall be established between the building/structure and the parcel.

                             2 0 1 if 0 0 1 ft]      Chapter 14-Recreation Resources (SMA Only)
                                                                                January 10, 2006
Page 14-110

                  by the four treaty tribes.
              (3) List tribal ceremonial fishing seasons in the project vicinity.

              (4) Assess, based on the above factors the potential effects that the
                  proposed uses may have on Indian treaty rights.

    4.   Notices also shall include a treaty rights protection plan if new uses may affect
         Indian treaty rights.

         a. The protection plan shall specify measures that will be used to avoid effects
            to Indian treaty rights.

         b. These measures may include reducing the size and modifying the tocation or
            design of the proposed uses, seasonal closures, stringent on-site monitoring,
            information signs, and highly visible buoys or other markers delineating
            fishing net locations.

    §.   Indian tribal governments shall have 20 calendar days from the date a notice is
         mailed to submit substantive written comments to the County Planning Office.
         Indian tribal governments must identify the treaty rights that exist in the project
         vicinity and explain how they would be affected or modified by the new uses.

C. Tribal Government Consultation

    1. When substantive written comments are submitted to the County Planning Office
       in a timely manner, the project applicant shall offer to meet with the County
       Planning Office and the Indian tribal government that submitted comments within
       10 calendar days.    The 10 day consultation period may be extended upon
       agreement between the project applicant and the Indian tribal government.

         Consultation meetings should provide an opportunity for the project applicant
         and tribal representatives to identify potential conflicts and explore options to
         eliminate them. The project applicant must demonstrate this his/her proposed
         use would not affect or modify treaty or other rights of any Indian tribe.

    2.   Any substantive comments,              recommendations, or concerns expressed by Indian
         tribal governments during the consultation meeting shail be recorded and
         addressed by the project applicant in a treaty rights protection plan.     The
         protection plan shall include measures to avoid treaty and other rights of any
         Indian tribe.

    3. The County shall submit all protection plans to the Indian tribal governments.
       Indian tribal governments shall have 30 calendar days from the date a protection
       plan is mailed to submit written comments to the County Planning Office.

Chapter 14-Treaty Rights & Consultation (GMA Only)                 9 0 1 % 0 Q 1 0
January 10, 2006
                                                                                                  Page 14-111

D. Conclusion of the Treaty Rights Protection Process

   1. The County will decide whether the proposed               uses would affect or modify any
      treaty or other rights of any Indian tribe.

      a. The final decision shall integrate findings of fact that address any substantive
         comments, recommendations, or concerns expressed by Indian tribal
           governments.

      b.   If the final decision contradicts the comments,          recommendations or concerns
           of Indian tribal governments,        the   County    must justify how          it reached      an
           opposing conclusion.

   2. The treaty rights protection process may conclude if the County determines that
      the proposed uses would not affect or modify treaty or other rights of any Indian
      tribe. Uses that would affect or modify such rights shall be prohibited.

   3. A finding by the County that the proposed uses would not affect or modify treaty
      or other   rights,   or a failure of an    Indian   tribe to comment          or consult      on   the
      proposed uses as provided in these guidelines, in no way shall be interpreted as
      a waiver by the Indian tribe of a claim that such uses adversely affect or modify
      treaty or other tribal rights.

                                9 0 1 § 0 0 1 0           Chapter 14-Treaty Rights & Consultation (GMA Only}
                                                                                             January 10, 2006
Page 14-112

SECTION 14.810           Indian Tribal Treaty Rights and Consultation (SMA Only)

For all new development or new uses in the SMA, the Forest Service is responsible for
consulting with Indian tribal governments at the government-to-government level. The
purpose of this process is to ensure that its management activities will not affect treaty
rights, and to provide meaningful participation in the identification, evaluation and
protection of cultural resources.

Section 17 (Savings Provisions of the Scenic Area Act) contains several provisions
regarding the need to avoid potential effects to treaty rights. Treaty rights are defined
by the Treaties of 1855 between the Congress and Indian Tribal governments. These
rights are not subject to negotiation. Potential effects to treaty rights must be avoided.
The Forest Service has no authority to interpret or negotiate in the area of treaty rights.

Cultural resources are protected by the Scenic Area Act and the Historic Preservation
Act of 1966. Indian tribal governments are identified as parties to be consulted during
the inventory, evaluation and protection of cultural resources.

Chapter 14-Treaty Rights & Consultation (GMA Only)
January 10, 2006                                                      2 0 1 o 0 0 1 0
                  DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

          CHAPTER 15 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

SECTION                                                                  PAGE
15.010       ADMINISTRATION                                              15-1
15.020       ZONING APPROVAL                                             15-1
15.030       AUTHORITY                                                   15-1
15.040       CIVIL RELIEF                                                15-2
15.050       VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE                                      15-2
15.060       VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE AS A NUISANCE                        15-2
15.070       WASCO COUNTY CODE COMPLIANCE AND                            15-2
             NUISANCE ABATEMENT ORDINANCE

                            991950010     Chapter 15-Administration & Enforcement
                                                                                                      Page 15-1

                    CHAPTER 15 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

SECTION 15.010 Administration

It shall be the duty of the Director, or the Director's designee, to enforce the provisions of
this ordinance pertaining to property use and to the construction, erection, location or
enlargement of any structure located within the National Scenic Area portion of Wasco
County, Oregon, under the jurisdiction of this Ordinance.

SECTION 15.020 Zoning Approval

A. The Director, the Director's designee or other Approving Authority shall not give
   zoning approval on any development or use of land, including land divisions and
   property line adjustments on a property that is not in full compliance with all applicable
   provisions of this ordinance, regardiess of whether the applicant(s) or current owner(s)
   created the violation.                                                    .

B. Zoning approval may be authorized if:

   1.   It results in the property coming into full compliance with all applicable provisions of
        the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance.                      This includes
        sequencing of permits or other approvals as part of a voluntary compliance
        agreement; or

   2.   It is necessary to protect public safety; or

   3.   tis for work related to and within a valid easement over, on or under an affected
        property.

C. For the purpose of this section, Public Safety means the actions authorized by the
   permit would cause abatement of conditions found to exist on the property that
   endanger     the   life,   health,   personal   property,   or safety   of the   residents     or public.
   Examples of that situation include but are not limited to issuance of permits to replace
   or repair compromised utility infrastructure for water, sewer, fuel, or power, and
   actions necessary to stop earth slope failures.

SECTION 15.030 Authority

Whenever necessary to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance, the Director, or the
Director's designee, shall have the authority in addition to other remedies provided by
law, to issue compliance notices and orders, assess penalties, record violations and
liens with the County Clerk, issue citations, to institute injunction, mandamus,
abatement or other appropriate proceedings to prevent, temporarily or permanently
                                          9 9 1 % 0 0 41 0             Chapter 15-Administration oe   oot   ata
Page 15-2

enjoin or abate a violation.

SECTION 15.040             Civil Relief

When        a   building   or other      structure   is, or    is proposed     to   be,    located,   constructed,
maintained, repaired, altered, or used, or any land is, or is proposed to be, used in
violation of this Ordinance, the County Court, the District Attorney or any person whose
interest in real property within the County is or may be affected by the violation, may, in
addition to other remedies provided by law, institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or
other appropriate proceedings to prevent, temporarily or permanently enjoin, abate, or
remove the unlawful location, construction, maintenance, repair, alteration or use.                           When
a temporary restraining order is granted in a suit instituted by a person who is not exempt
from furnishing bonds or undertakings as provided under O.R.S. 32.010 to 32.060, the
person shall furnish undertakings as provided under O.R.S. 32.010 to 32.060.

SECTION 15.050 Violation of Ordinance

No person shall construct, erect, locate, maintain, repair, alter, enlarge, use or change the
use or uses of any structure or property or shall transfer any property in violation of this
Ordinance.

SECTION         15.060     Violation of Ordinance as a Nuisance

The construction, erection, location, maintenance, repair, alteration, enlargement or use
or change in use or uses of any structure or property or transfer of any property in
violation of this Ordinance or those conditions and limitations approved pursuant to the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed a nuisance and may be enjoined, abated or
removed.                                                                                                  :

SECTION 15.070             Wasco County Code Compliance and Nuisance Abatement
                           Ordinance

The Wasco          County Code Compliance and Nuisance Ordinance is a separate County
Court       adopted    ordinance       that   implements      land   use,   nuisance      and    health   violations.
Please refer to that ordinance for further details related to enforcement of the provisions
of the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance.

                                                                                                    0 0 1 0
cl
pigeon  an ininistrat loion
      15-Admini         n   & Enf forcement                                         9     g 1   ns:
                       DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

          CHAPTER 16   EMERGENCY/DISASTER RESPONSE ACTIONS

SECTION                                                                        PAGE
16.010           PURPOSE                                                       16-4
16.020           RESPONSIBLE PARTY                                             16-1
16.030           EMERGENCY DISASTER ACTION REQUIREMENTS                        16-1
16.040           POST EMERGENCY/DISASTER RESPONSE                              16-3
                 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW APPLICATION
                 REQUIREMENTS
16.050           POST-EMERGENCY/DISASTER RESPONSE                              16-5
                 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW REQUIREMENTS
16.060           POST-EMERGENCY/DISASTER CONSTRUCTION                          16-14

                                   an
                           2   0 1 ws 0 0 1 0   Chapter 16-Emergency/Distaster Response
                                                                                                 Page 16-1

              CHAPTER 16 - EMERGENCY/DISASTER RESPONSE ACTIONS

SECTION 16.010          Purpose

Post-emergency/disaster response development review is required in order to evaluate
whether such response actions have impacted scenic, natural, cultural or recreation
resources. Adverse impacts of the response actions shall be mitigated to the greatest
extent practicable. The review process shall be expedited to facilitate timely
mitigation/restoration efforts, where needed.

SECTION       16.020    Responsible Party

The party(ies) submitting the post-emergency/disaster response application shall be.
responsible for implementing any required mitigation/restoration, unless:

A.   Other    responding    parties   agree   to   assume   such    responsibility,     upon     mutual
     agreement of the parties; or

B. The landowner denies access for mitigation/restoration activities, in which case the
   landowner assumes responsibility.

SECTION       16.030    Emergency/Disaster Action Requirements

A.   Responsible Party Operational Requirements:

     4.   Following    emergency/disaster     response   actions,   best   management          practices
          (BMPs) to prevent sedimentation and provide erosion control shall be utilized
          whenever disaster response actions necessitate vegetation removal, excavation,
          and/or grading. BMPs may include but are not limited to: use of straw bales,
          slash windrows, filter fabric fences, sandbags, straw cover, jute netting, etc.

     2.   Structures or development installed or erected for a temporary use (e.g.
          sandbags, check dams, plastic sheeting, chain link fences, debris walls, etc.)
          shall be removed within one year following an emergency event. If it can be
          demonstrated that the continued use of these devices is necessary to protect life
          property, public services or the environment, an extension of no more than two
          years may be granted by the Wasco County Planning Department or the Forest
          Service for federal agency actions.

                                         2 9 1 S 0 0 1 0            Chapter 16-Emergency oie      ee 2010
Page 16-2

    3. The new exploration, development (extraction or excavation), and production of
       mineral resources, used for commercial, private or public works projects, shall
       not be conducted as an emergency/disaster response activity.

            No spoils resulting from grading or excavation activities shall be deliberately
            deposited into a wetland, stream, pond, lake or riparian area within the National
            Scenic Area (NSA) as a part of an emergency/disaster response action. The
            only exception to this is for construction of a fire line during a wildfire, where
            avoiding the aquatic area or its buffer zone has been considered and determine
            to not be possible without further jeopardizing life or property.

B. Responsible Party Notification Requirements

    Actions taken in response to an emergency/disaster event, as defined in the Section
    1.200,       are   allowed   in all GMA        and   SMA   land     use   designations,    subject    to the
    following notification requirements.

    1.      Notification of an emergency/disaster response activity shall be submitted either
            within 48 hours of the commencement of a response action, or by the next
            business day following the start of such an action, whichever is sooner.
            Notification shall be submitted by the party conducting an emergency/disaster
            response activity or their representatives.  In the case of multiple responding
            parties, the first party to respond shall provide the required notification, unless,
            upon mutual agreement of responding parties, another responder elects to
            assume this responsibility.

            Notification shall be submitted by mail, fax, telephone, e-mail or in person. If
            notification occurs by telephone, a hard copy of the notification shall be
            submitted by mail or in person within 7 days.

            Notification shall be furnished to the Wasco County Planning Department, or the
            Forest Service for federal agency actions.

            At a minimum,        the   following     information      shall   be   required   at   the   time   of
            notification:

            a.   Nature of emergency/disaster event.

            b. Description of emergency/disaster response activities and magnitude of
               response actions to be taken, if applicable (such as extent of earth
                 movement, erection of structures, etc.).

            c.   Location of emergency/disaster response activities.

eat
Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response

                                                                              29190010
                                                                                                        Page 16-3

        d. Estimated start and duration of emergency/disaster response activities.

        e. Contact   person   and   phone     number                 for       the      parties     conducting
           emergency/disaster response actions.

   5.   Repair    and   maintenance     of an   existing    serviceable        structure to its previously
        authorized and undamaged            condition are not subject to the above referenced
        notification requirements.

C. Agency Responsibility

   1.   Upon notification of an emergency/disaster response action, the Wasco County
        Planning Department or Forest Service shall, as soon as possible:

        a.    Review its natural resource inventory data and notify the contact person for
              the emergency/disaster response actions of all inventoried natural resource
              sites and their buffers, that are within or adjacent to the response area or that
              may be adversely affected by response activities;

        b. Notify the Oregon       Department of Fish and Wildlife of all noticed
           emergency/disaster response actions, to provide that agency an opportunity
           to consult with responding agencies during the event, and;

        c.    Notify the Forest Service, the Oregon           Historic Preservation Office and the
              tribal governments of all emergency/disaster response activities.                     The Forest
              Service will review their cultural resource inventory data and notify the contact
              person for the emergency/disaster response action as soon as possible of all
              inventoried cultural resource sites, or their buffers, that are within, or adjacent
              to, emergency/disaster response areas.

   2.   Upon     notification   of a response    action,    the Forest        Service     shall,    as soon   as
        possible, offer the services of a resource advisor to the agency(ies) conducting
        the    response    action.    The    resource      advisor   will     provide     on-site    advice    to
        minimize impacts to resources from emergency/disaster response actions.

SECTION       16.040    Post-Emergency/Disaster Response Development Review
                        Application Requirements

A. Within 30 days following notification, a post-emergency/disaster response
   application shall be submitted by the party conducting the response action to the
   Wasco County Planning Department, or Forest Service for federal agency actions.
   in the case of an event with multiple responding parties, the agency providing initial
   notification as required herein shall submit the application. An exception to this may

                                 9 0 41 * 0 0 4 0                          Chapter 16-Emergency/Disastor Response
Page 16-4

    occur if another responding party, by mutual agreement with the other respondents,
    elects to submit the application. Requests to extend this submittal deadline may be
    made in writing and shall include the reason why an extension is necessary.
    Extensions shall not exceed 30 days in duration and not more than two (2)
    extensions shall be granted.

B. Post-emergency/disaster response applications shall only address development
   activities conducted during an emergency/disaster response.         Applications shall
   specify if development placed during   an  emergency/disast er event  is permanent or
   temporary.     The terms "development activities" and "development" include the
   disposal of any spoil materials associated with an emergency/disaster response
   action. Applicants shall be responsible for operations under their control and that of
   other responders, upon mutual agreement.          Responders not agreeing to have
   another responder address their actions shall be responsible to submit an
   application for those actions.

C. Emergency/disaster response actions not involving structural development or
   ground    disturbance with mechanized       equipment    are exempt from these
   requirements, except for those actions within 500 feet of a known cultural resource
    (as determined in the notification process).

D. Applications shall include the following information:

    1. Applicants name and address.

    2.      Location of emergency/disaster response.

    3. A written description of the emergency/disaster response, including any
       structures erected, excavation or other grading activities, or vegetation removal.

    4. A map of the project area drawn to scale, at a scale of 1 inch = 200 feet or a
       scale providing greater detail. The map shall include:

            a.   North arrow and scale.

            b.   Boundaries, dimensions and size of subject parcel(s).

            c.   Bodies of water, watercourses, and significant landforms.

            d.   Existing roads and structures.

            e.   New   structures   placed   and   any vegetation   removal,   excavation   or grading
                 resulting from the response actions.

Chapter 16-EmergencyiDissatr Response                      9 0 1 BS 0 0 1 0
                                                                                           Page 16-5

        An exception to the scale requirements in D(4) above may be granted for an
        event encompassing an area greater than one square mile. In such cases, a
        clear sketch map of the entire response action area shall be provided.          In
        addition, a map of 1 inch = 200 feet or a scale providing greater detail shall be
        provided that shows a section of the response area exemplifying the specific
        actions taken.

SECTION      16.050   Post-Emergency/Disaster Response Development Review
                      Requirements

A. Emergency/disaster response review uses may be allowed pursuant to a process
   that provides at minimum the following:

   1.   Notice of the application to landowners within 200 feet of the perimeter of the
        subject parcel, the Forest Service, Gorge Commission, four tribal governments
        and interested parties.

   2. A written decision with findings of fact and conclusions of law.

   3. An opportunity to request a hearing.

B. Actions taken in all {and use designations within the GMA/SMA that are in response
   to an emergency/disaster event, as defined in Section       1.200, shall be reviewed for
   compliance with the following guidelines.

   1. Scenic Resources

        a.   Impacts of emergency/disaster response actions shall be evaluated to ensure
             that scenic resources are not adversely affected. In the GMA, such actions
             shall be rendered visually subordinate in their landscape setting as seen from
             key viewing areas to the greatest extent practicable, except for actions
             located in areas exempted from visual subordinance requirements in
             14.400(J), Special Settings. In the SMA, such actions shall meet the scenic
             standard to the greatest extent practicable.                                  .

        b. Vegetation shall be used to screen or cover road cuts, structural
           development, landform alteration, and areas denuded of vegetation, as a
           result of emergency/disaster response actions.

        c. Areas denuded of vegetation as a result of emergency/disaster response
           actions shall be revegetated with native plant species, or species commonly
           found within the applicable landscape setting, to restore the affected areas to
           its pre-response condition to the greatest extent practicable. Revegetation

                                   . 2 t} 1 ¢ 0 9 1 0         Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response
                                                                                       XX; TOOK 2010
Page 16-6

                 shall occur as soon as practicable, but no later than one year after the
                 emergency/disaster event. An exception to the one-year requirement may be
                 granted upon demonstration of just cause, with an extension up to one year.

            d. The painting, staining or use of other materials on new _ structural
               development shall be used to ensure that the structures are non-reflective, or
               of law reflectivity, and visually subordinate in their landscape setting as seen
               from key viewing areas, unless the structure is fully screened from key
                 viewing areas by existing topographic features.

            e. Additions        to     existing    structures,      resulting     from      an   emergency/disaster
                 response       action,    which    are   smaller    in total     height,    bulk or area   than   the
                 existing structures may be the same color as the existing development.
                 Additions larger than the existing development shall be visually subordinate in
                 their landscape setting as seen from key viewing areas to the greatest extent
                 practicable.

            f.   In the General Management Area, spoil materials associated with grading,
                 excavation   and  slide debris removal    activities in relation to an
                 emergency/disaster response action shall comply with the following
                 standards:

                 (1} The spoil materials shall either be:

                    (a) Removed from the NSA,

                    (b) Deposited at a site within the NSA                      permitted by the Wasco       County
                        Planning Department, or

                    (c} (Re)contoured, to the greatest extent practicable, to retain the natural
                        topography, or a topography which emulates that of the surrounding
                        landscape.

                 (2) The Wasco County Planning Department shall decide whether an
                     applicant removes the spoil materials, deposits the spoil materials, or
                     (re)contours the spoils materials. The applicant does not make this
                     decision.

                 (3) The Wasco County Planning Department shall select the action that, to
                     the greatest extent practicable, best complies with the provisions of
                    Chapter 14 that protect scenic, cultural, recreation, and natural resources.

                 (4) Disposal sites created according to f(1)(b) above shall only be used for
                     spoil materials associated with an emergency/disaster response action.

moe                                  Response                                     9 0 4 8 0 0 1 0
                                                                                       Page 16-7

           Spoil materials from routine      road   maintenance    activities shall     not be
           deposited at these sites.

     g. In the Special Management Area, spoil materials associated with grading,
        excavation    and slide debris removal    activities in relation to an
        emergency/disaster response action shall     comply   with the following
        standards:

        (1) The spoil materials shall either be:

           (a) Removed from the NSA, or

           (b) Deposited at a site within the NSA permitted by the Wasco               County
               Planning Department within two years of the emergency.

        (2) After the spoils materials are removed, the emergency disposal site shall
            be rehabilitated to meet the scenic standard.

        (3) All grading (i.e., recontouring) shall be completed within 30 days after the
            spoils materials are removed.

        (4) Sites shall be replanted using native plants found in the landscape setting
            or ecoregion to the maximum extent practicable.

        (5) All revegetation shall take place within     one   (1) year of the        date   an
            applicant completes the grading. -

        (6) This provision shall take effect two years after the date of Management
            Plan concurrence by the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, or approval of a
            disposal site, which ever comes first.

2.   Cultural Resources and Treaty Rights

     a. To the greatest extent practicable, emergency/disaster response actions shall
        not adversely affect cultural resources. Emergency/disaster response actions
        shall not affect tribal treaty rights.

     b. The USDA Forest Service shall determine if a reconnaissance survey or
        historic survey is necessary within three days after receiving notice that a
        post-emergency land use application has been received by the Wasco
        County Planning Department.

                               9 0 1 & 0 0 41 0            Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response
                                                                                     XX, OK 2010
Page 16-8

                     (1) Reconnaissance surveys shall be conducted by the USDA Forest Service
                         and comply with the criteria in Section 14.500. Reconnaissance survey
                        reports shall comply with the criteria in Section 14.500.

                     (2) Historic surveys shall be conducted by the USDA Forest Service and shall
                         describe any adverse effects. to historic resources resulting from an
                         emergency/disaster response action. Historic surveys shall document the
                         location, form, style, integrity, and physical condition of historic buildings
                         and structures. Such surveys shall also include original photographs, if
                         available, and maps, and should use archival research, blueprints, and
                         drawings as necessary.

            c.       Following the submittal of a post-emergency land use application, in addition
                     to other public notice requirements that may exist, the tribal governments
                     shall be notified       by the development             review offer when      a reconnaissance
                     survey is required or cultural resources exist in the project area. Notices shall
                     include a site plan. Tribal governments shall have 15 calendar days fram the
                     date a notice is sent to submit written comments. Written comments should
                     describe the nature and extent of any cultural resources that exist in the
                     project area or treaty rights that exist in the project area and how they have
                     been   affected, and           identify individuals with specific knowledge          about them.
                     The Wasco County Planning Department shall send a copy of all comments
                     to the Gorge Commission.

            d. When written comments are submitted in compliance with (c) above, the
               project applicant shall offer to meet within five calendar days with the
               interested persons. The five day consultation period may be extended upon
               agreement between the project applicant and the interested persons.      A
               report shall be prepared by the Wasco County Planning Department following
                     the consultation        meeting.        Consultation    meetings      and   reports shall comply
                     with the standards in Section 14.500.

            e.       If cultural resources are discovered within the area disturbed by emergency
                     response     actions,         the   project applicant shall    have    a qualified   professional
                     conduct a survey to gather enough information to evaluate the significance of
                     the cultural resources and what effects the action had on such resources.
                     The survey and evaluation shall be documented in a report that generally
                     follows the standards in Section 14500.

            f.       A mitigation plan shall be prepared by the project applicant if the affected
                     cultural resources are significant. The mitigation plan shall be prepared
                     according to the information, consultation, and report guidelines in Mitigation
                     Plan Criteria and Information Needs in Section 14.500.

OO               -
             2 preraency    {Di isaster Response                                   2 0 1   £90
                                                                                           .s 0 10
                                                                                                   Page. 16-9

g. The Wasco County Planning Department shall submit a copy of all
   reconnaissance and historic survey reports and treaty rights protection plans
   to the SHPO and the tribal governments.        Survey reports shall include
   measures to mitigate adverse effects to cultural resources resulting from
   emergency/disaster response actions. The SHPO and tribal governments
   shall.have 15 calendar days from the date a survey report is mailed to submit
     written comments to the agency conducting the post-emergency development
     review.     The agency shall record and address all written comments                           in the
     development review order.

h. The Wasco County Planning Department shall make a final decision on
   whether the emergency/disaster response actions are consistent with the
   applicable cultural resource goals, policies, and guidelines.   If the final
   decision contradicts the comments     submitted  by  the  SHPO,    or those
     submitted     by a tribal government           regarding   treaty rights, the agency             shall
     justify how it reached an opposing conclusion.

i.   The    cultural   resource   protection       process   may   conclude      when     it has      been
     determined that tribal treaty rights have not been not affected and one of the
     following conditions exists:

     (1) The   emergency/disaster     response   action  does    not   require    a
         reconnaissance   or historic survey,     or a reconnaissance       survey
         demonstrates that no cultural resources are known to exist in the project
           area, and   no substantiated    concerns were voiced             by interested persons
           within 15 calendar days of the date that a notice was mailed.

     (2) The emergency/disaster         response action avoided            cultural resources that
         exist in the project area.

     (3) Adequate mitigation measures to affected cultural resources have been
         developed and will be implemented.

     (4) A historic survey demonstrates that emergency/disaster response actions,
         and associated development, had no effect on historic buildings or
           structures because:

           (a) The SHPO concluded that the historic buildings or structures are
               clearly not eligible, as determined by using the criteria in the “National
               Register Criteria for Evaluation” (36 CFR 60.4), or

           (b) The emergency/disaster response actions did not compromise the
               historic or architectural character of the affected buildings or
               structures, or compromise features of the site that are important in

                                               a
                                     20 1s 00 1                    Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response
                                                                                             XK, XAXX 2010
Page 16-10

                    defining the overail historic character of the affected buildings or
                    structures, as determined by the guidelines and standards in The
                    Secretary of the Interiors Standards for Rehabilitation [U.S.
                    Department of the Interior 1990] and The Secretary of the Interior's
                    Standards for Historic Preservation Projects [U.S. Department of the
                    Interior 1983].

    3.   Natural Resources

         a. To the greatest extent practicable, emergency/disaster response actions shall
            not adversely affect natural resources.                     :

         b.   Buffer zones for wetlands,    streams,   ponds,   riparian areas, sensitive wildlife
              sites or areas, and sites containing rare plants, shall be the same as those
              established in Sections 14.600 and 14.610, Natural Resources.

         c.   Wetlands, Streams, Ponds, Lakes, Riparian Areas

              (1) Emergency/disaster response actions occurring within a buffer zone of
                  wetlands, streams, pond, lakes or riparian areas shall be reviewed by the
                  Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW). These areas are also
                 referred to in this section as aquatic areas.   State biologists will help
                 determine if emergency/disaster response actions have affected or have a
                 potential to affect these aquatic areas         or their bigger zones.    State
                 biologists shall respond within 15 days         of the date the application is
                 mailed.

              (2) When     emergency/disaster   response    activities   occur   within   wetlands,
                 streams, ponds, lakes, riparian areas, or the buffer zones of these areas,
                 the applicant shall demonstrate the following:

                 (a) All reasonable measures have been applied to ensure that the
                     response actions have resulted in the minimum feasible alteration or
                     destruction of the functions, existing contours, vegetation, fish and
                     wildlife resources, and hydrology of wetlands, streams, ponds, lakes or
                    riparian areas.

                 (b) Areas   disturbed   by response   activities and    associated   development
                    will be rehabilitated to the maximum extent practicable.

              (3) Impacts to wetlands, streams, ponds, lakes and riparian areas, and their
                  buffers will be offset through mitigation and restoration to the greatest
                 extent practicable.   Mitigation and restoration efforts shall use native
                 vegetation, and restore natural functions, contours, vegetation patterns,

none                         Response                           9 0 1 £ 0 0 1 0
                                                                                                      Page 16-11

       hydrology and          fish     and   wildlife     resources          to    the   maximum        extent
       practicable.

   (4) If the The Wasco County Planning Department, in consultation with
       ODFW, determines that the emergency/disaster response actions had
       minor   effects   on      the    aquatic    area      or    its    buffer     zone   that    could    be
       eliminated with simple modifications, a letter shall be sent to the project
       applicant that describes the effects and measures that need to be taken to
       eliminate them.        The state biologist, or             a Forest Service natural resource
       advisor (as available) in consulation with the state biologist, shall visit the
       site in order to. make this determination. If the project applicant accepts
       these recommendations, the agency administering the Scenic Area
       ordinance shall incorporate them into its development review order and
       the aquatic area protection process may conclude.

   (5) Unless addressed through (4) above, mitigation and restoration efforts
       shall be delineated in a Rehabilitation Plan. Rehabilitation Plans shall
       satisfy the standards in Section                 14.600.      Rehabilitation plans shall also
       satisfy the following:

       (a) Plans shall include a plan view and cross-sectional drawing at a scale
           that adequately depicts site rehabilitation efforts. Plans will illustrate
           final site topographic contours that emulate the surrounding natural
           landscape.                  ;

       (b) Planting plans shall be included that specify native plant species to be
           used, specimen quantities and plant locations.

       (c) The project applicant shall be responsible for the successful
           rehabilitation of all areas disturbed by emergency/disaster response
           activities.

d. Wildlife Habitat

   (1) Emergency/disaster response actions occurring within 1,000 feet of a
       sensitive wildlife area or site, shall be reviewed by the Oregon or
       Department of Fish and Wildlife.            State wildlife biologists will help
       determine if emergency/disaster response actions have affected or have a
       potential to.affect a sensitive wildlife area or site.

   (2) Site_plans for emergency/disaster response sites shall be submitted by
       the Wasco County Planning Department to ODFW for review as
       prescribed in Section 14.600. The wildlife agency shall respond within 15
       days of the date the application is mailed.

                                                                         Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response
                                       991°0010                                                    XX, 200K 2010
Page 16-12

                (3) The      wildlife    protection      process     may     terminate     if the    Wasco     County
                   Planning Department, in consultation with the state wildlife agency,
                   determines the sensitive wildlife area or site was not active, or the
                   emergency/disaster response did not compromise the integrity of the
                   wildlife area or site or occurred at a time when wildlife species are not
                   sensitive to disturbance.

                (4) If The Wasco County Planning Department, in consultation with ODFW,
                    determines that the emergency/disaster response activities had minor
                    effects on the wildlife area or site that could be eliminated with simple
                    modifications, a letter shall be sent to the project applicant that describes
                   the effects and measures that need to be taken to eliminate them. The
                   state wildlife biologist, or a Forest Service natural resource advisor (as
                   available) in consultation with the state wildlife biologist, shall visit the site
                   in order to make this determination. If the project applicant accepts these
                   recommendations, the agency administering the Scenic Area ordinance
                   shall incorporate them into its development review order and the wildlife
                   protection process may conclude.

                (5) If the     Wasco          County     Planning    Department,         in consultation     with    the
                    ODFW,        determines       that the emergency/disaster             response    activities had
                   adverse effect on a sensitive wildlife area or site, the project applicant
                   shall prepare a Wildlife Management Plan. Wildlife Management Plans
                   shall comply with standards in Section 14.600. Upon completion of the
                   Wildlife Management Plan, the agency shall:

                    (a) Submit a copy of the Wildlife Management Plan to the state wildlife
                        agency for review. ODFW will have 15 days from the date that a plan
                        is mailed to submit written comments to the agency conducting the
                          post-emergency development review;

                    (b) Record          any    written    comments          submitted     by   the   ODFW       in    its
                          development          review order.        Based    on these     comments,     the agency
                          conducting the post-emergency development review shall make a final
                          decision on whether the proposed use would be consistent with the
                          wildlife policies and guidelines.   If the final decision contradicts the
                          comments submitted by ODFW,              the Wasco      County Planning
                          Department shall justify how it reached an opposing conclusion.

                   (c) Require the project applicant to revise the Wildlife Management Plan
                       as necessary to ensure that the proposed use would not adversely
                       affect a sensitive wildlife area or site.

                                                                            901°0010
Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                        Page 16-13

e.   Deer and Elk Winter Range

     Any fencing permanently erected within deer and elk winter range, as a result
     of an emergency/disaster response, shall comply with the standards in
     Section 14.600.

f.   Rare Plants

     (1) Emergency/disaster    response    actions   occurring       within   1,000   feet   of a
        sensitive plant, shall be reviewed by the Oregon Natural Heritage
        Program. State heritage staff will help determine if emergency/disaster
        response actions have occurred within the buffer zone of a rare plant.

     (2) Site plans for emergency/disaster response sites shall be submitted to the
         Oregon or Natural Heritage Program by the agency conducting the post-
         emergency development review. State natural heritage staff will, within 15
         days from the date the application is mailed, identify the location of the
        affected plants and delineate a 200 foot buffer zone on the applicant's site
        plan.                                                    .

     (3) The rare plant protection process may conclude if the Wasco County
         Planning Department, in consuitation with the state natural heritage
         program, determines that emergency/disaster response activities occurred
        outside of a rare plan buffer zone.

     (4) If the Wasco County Planning Department, in consultation with the state
         natural heritage program, determines that the emergency/disaster
        response activities had minor effects on rare plants or the rare plant buffer
        zone, a letter shall be sent to the project applicant that describes the
        effects and measures that need to be taken to eliminate them. The state
        natural heritage staff, or a Forest Service natural resources advisor (as
        available) in consultation with the state natural heritage staff, shail visit the
        site in order to make this determination. If the project applicant accepts
        these recommendations, the Wasco County Planning Department shall
        incorporate them into its development        review      order and      the   rare   plant
        protection process may conclude.

     (5) If emergency/disaster response activities occurred within a rare plant
         buffer zone that had adverse affects on rare plants or their buffer zone,
         the project applicant shall prepare a protection and rehabilitation plan that
         meets the standards in Section 14.600.

     (6) The Wasco County Planning Department              shall submit a copy of all
         protection and rehabilitation plans to the        state heritage program for

                              20150010                    Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response
                                                                                    XX, XXX 2010
Page 16-14

                   review.      The state natural heritage program will have 15 days from the
                   date the protection and rehabilitation plan is mailed               to submit   written
                   comments to the Wasco County Planning Department.

                   The Wasco County Planning Department review shall record any written
                   comments submitted by the state natural heritage program in its
                   development          review order.   Based   on these   comments,     it shall make    a
                   final decision on whether the proposed use would be consistent with the
                   rare plant policies and guidelines.  If the final decision contradicts the
                   comments submitted by the state natural heritage program, the Wasco
                   County Planning Department shall justify how it reached an opposing
                   conclusion.

               (7) The Wasco County Planning Department shall require the project
                   applicant to revise the protection and rehabilitation plan as necessary to
                   ensure that the proposed use would not adversely affect a rate plant site.

    4.   Recreational Resources

         (a) To the greatest extent practicable, emergency/disaster response actions shall
             not aversely affect recreational resources.

         (b) Mitigation measures shall be implemented to mitigate any adverse effects on
             existing recreation resources caused by emergency/disaster response
               activities to the maximum extent practicable.

16.060        Post-Emergency/Disaster Construction

A. The following review uses are allowed in all land use designations subject to a full
   Scenic Area Review.

    4.   Placement of structures necessary for continued public safety and the protection
         of     private      property     and   essential   public   services    damaged       during    an
         emergency/disaster event. This includes replacement of temporary structures
         erected during such events with permanent structures performing an identical or
         related function.  Land use applications shall be submitted within 12 months
         following an emergency/disaster events.

Chapter 16-Emergency/Disaster Response                                     oy) 0 4 a 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                     DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

CHAPTER 20   HOME OCCUPATIONS AND COTTAGE INDUSTRIES, BED
             & BREAKFAST INNS, COMMERCIAL EVENTS, AND SPECIAL
             USES IN HISTORIC BUILDINGS

SECTION                                                                                        PAGE
20.100          HOME OCCUPATIONS AND COTTAGE INDUSTRIES                                        20-1
20.200          BED AND BREAKFAST INNS                                                         20-2
20.300          COMMERCIAL EVENTS                                                              20-4
20.400          SPECIAL USES IN HISTORIC BUILDINGS                                             20-6

          99160010
                  Chapter 20-Home Occupations/B&B’s/Commercial Events/Special Uses in Historic Buildings
                                                                                                        Page 20-1

      CHAPTER 20 HOME OCCUPATIONS, COTTAGE INDUSTRIES, BED
            & BREAKFAST INNS, COMMERCIAL EVENTS AND SPECIAL
            USES IN HISTORIC BULDINGS

SECTION 20.100          Home Occupations and Cottage Industries                      (GMA & SMA)

Home occupations and cottage industries may be established as authorized in specified
land use designations and consistent with the following.

A. A home occupation may employ only residents of the home.

  ‘A cottage industry may employ up to three (3) outside employees.

   There will be no interference with existing uses on nearby land or with other uses
   permitted in the zone in which the property is located.

   There will be an annual review by the Approving Authority. The approval shall
   continue if the home occupation or cottage industry continues to comply with the
   requirements of this Subsection and all conditions of approval.

   No more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total actual living space                               of the
   dwelling may be utilized for the home occupation or cottage industry.

   No more than five hundred (500) square feet of an accessory structure may be
   utilized for a home occupation or cottage industry.

   There   shall   be    no   outside,   visible   evidence        of the    home   occupation     or cottage
   industry, including outside storage.

   Exterior structural alterations to the residence for the home occupation or cottage
   industry shall not be permitted.     New structures shall not be constructed for the
   primary purpose of housing a home occupation or cottage industry.

   No retail sales may occur on the premises                        except    incidental   sales   at lodging
   establishments authorized in this chapter.

   One (1) small, non-animated, non-illuminated sign, not exceeding two (2) square
   feet in area may be permitted on the subject structure or within the yard containing
   the home occupation or cottage industry.

   Parking not associated with residential use shall be screened so it is not visible from
   Key Viewing Areas.                                                          .

                                                              ow

                                                     2 0 1    ~    0 0 1 0          Chapter 20-Home Occupations
                                                                                                 January 10, 2006
Page 20-2

SECTION 20.200               Bed and Breakfast Inns (GMA & SMA)

Bed and Breakfast Inns may be permitted in a lawfully established single family dwelling
as authorized in specified zoning designations and consistent with the following:

A. Residential zones (GMA & SMA)

     1.     Bed and Breakfast         Inns with up to two      (2) bedrooms     may      be permitted    in all
            residential zones.                                                                      :

            Bed and Breakfast Inns with between three (3) and five (5) bedrooms may only
            be permitted in R-R(5) and R-R(10) and SMA Residential zones.

B.   Agricultural and Forest zones (GMA & SMA)

     1.     Bed     and   Breakfast    Inns with   up to two     (2) bedrooms       may     be penmitted     in
            specified agricultural and forest zones.

            Bed and Breakfast Inns with between three (3) and five (5) bedrooms may only
            be permitted in specified agricultural and forest zones when the dwelling is listed
            or is eligible to be listed on the National Register of Historic Places or, identified
            and protected under local landmark status as approved pursuant to Oregon
            State land use regulations protecting historic structures.

            The owners or operators of the bed and breakfast inn shalt post an 8 1/2” x 11"
            "NOTICE" that will be located in a conspicuous location inside the bed and
            breakfast inn. Such "NOTICE" shall generally state:

            a.    In large, one (1) inch tail lettering at the top of the page, "N-O-T-I-C-E"; and

            b. That the bed and breakfast inn is located in an agricultural or forest area; and

            ce. That guests should use care when out of doors to avoid injury by adjacent
                and nearby agricultural or forest operations; and

            d. That adjacent and nearby agricultural or forest operations may from time to
                  time cause noise,     odor and    sights that are associated           with agricultural   or
                  forest operations.

            e.    That guests should be aware that adjacent and nearby operators are entitled
                  to carry   on   accepted   agricultural   or forest   practices   on    lands   designated
                  Agricultural or Forest.

Chapter 20-B&B's
                                                                         909120010
January 10, 2006
                                                                                        Page 20-3

 4.   Buffer zones should be considered       to   protect   agricultural   practices      from
      conflicting uses (SMA Only).

 5. The Bed and Breakfast shall be compatible with agricultural use. (SMA Only)

. In the Public Recreation zone Bed and Breakfast Inns with up to five (5) bedrooms
  may be permitted in the SMA only.

. Guests may not occupy a facility for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days;

. One (1) non-animated, non-illuminated sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in
  area, may be authorized on the structure or within the yard containing the facility;

. Parking areas shall be screened so as to not be visible from Key Viewing Areas.

. No retail sales may occur on the premises except incidental sales to the bed and
  breakfast operation.

. In the SMA, Bed and breakfast inns shall be allowed only in dwellings that are
  included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places.

  in addition to the criteria above, all proposed Bed and Breakfast Inn with up to two
 (2) bedrooms shall meet A, E, F, G, H, J and K in Section     20.100.

                                                                              Chapter 20-B&B’s
                                                                               January 10, 2006
Page 20-4

Section 20.300        Commercial Events (GMA Only)

Commercial events include weddings, receptions, parties and other small-scale
gatherings that are incidental and subordinate to the primary use on a parcel and may
be allowed except on lands designated Open Space, Industrial Forest, or Agriculture
Special, subject to compliance with the following:

A. The use must be in conjunction with a lawful winery, wine sales/tasting room, bed &
   breakfast inn, or commercial use. If the use is proposed on a property with a
   building on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places, it shall be subject
   to the provisions of Section 20.400 and not this Section.

    The owner of the subject parcel shall live on the parcel and shall operate and
    manage the use.

  . Asingle commercial event shall host no more than 100 guests.

    The use shall comply with the following parking requirements:

    1. Asingle commercial event shall include no more than 50 vehicles for guests.

    2. All parking shall occur on the subject parcel.

    3. Atleast 200 square feet of parking space shall be required for each vehicle.

    4.      Parking areas may be developed using paving blocks, gravel, or other pervious
            surfaces; asphalt, concrete and other imperious materials shall be prohibited.

    5. All parking areas shall be fully screened from Key Viewing Areas.

    The owner of the subject parcel       may   conduct   18 single events   up to one day in
    length per year.

    The owner of the subject parcel shall notify Wasco County and all owners of land
    within 500 feet of the perimeter of the subject parcel of each planned event. The
    notice shall be in writing and shall be mailed at least seven calendar days before an
    event.

  . Tents, canopies, portable restrooms and other similar temporary structures
    necessary for a commercial event may be allowed, provided all such structures are
    erected or placed on the subject parcel no more than two days before the event and
    removed no more than two days after the event. Alternatively, temporary structures
    may remain in place for up to 90 days if they are fully screened from Key Viewing
    Areas.

Chapter 20-Commercial Events
                                                                99190010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                     Page 20-5

H. To protect any nearby agricultural and forest operations the use may be allowed
   upon demonstration that it would be set back from any abutting parce! designated
   Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture, as required in "Agricultural Buffer Zones,” or
   designated Commercial Forest Land or Large or Small Woodland, as required in the
   "Siting of Dwellings on Forest Land" in Chapter 3 of this Ordinance.

|.   Land use approvals for commercial events shall not be valid for more than two
     years. Landowners must reapply for the use after a land use approval expires.

                                            99120010
                                                                  Chapter 20-Commerclal Events
                                                                                 XX, XXXX 2010
Page 20-6

Section 20.400 Special Uses in Historic Buildings (GMA Only)

A. Special uses in historic buildings may be allowed as authorized in specified land use
   designations subject to the provisions of Section 20.400(B), Chapter 5, Chapter 14,
   as well as any other listed or referenced provisions.

    4.      For the purposes of this section, the term “historic buildings” refers to buildings
            either on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. Eligibility for the
            National Register shall be determined pursuant to B(1)(a) below.

    2. The following review uses may be allowed on parcels with building(s) included on
       the National Register of Historic Places:

               Public viewing, interpretive displays, and an associated gift shop that is no
               larger than 100 square feet and incidental and subordinate to the primary use
               of the property. Voluntary donations and/or fees to support maintenance,
               preservation and enhancement of the cultural resource may be accepted by
               the landowner. Criteria B(1)(a) and B(1)(b)(3) & (4) below and the parking
               limits and associated “Facility Design Guidelines” in the Recreation Intensity
               Classes are not applicable to this use.

            b. Former restaurants and/or inns shall be permitted to re-establish these former
               uses.     The capacity of restaurant use and overnight accommodations shall be
               limited to that existing in the former use, and the former use shall be
               contained within the limits of the building as of January 1, 2006. Banquets,
               private    parties   and    other special   events   that take place   entirely within   an
               approved restaurant facility shall be considered a restaurant use allowed
               under this section.     Criteria B(1)(a) and B(1)(b)(3) & (4) below are not
               applicable to this use.

               Commercial events in the building or on the subject parcel. Criterion B(1)(a)
               below is not applicable to this use.

    3. The following additional review uses may be allowed on parcels with building(s)
       either on or eligible for the National Register for Historic Places and that was 50
       years old or older as of January 1, 2006:

               Establishments selling food and/or beverages, limited to historic buildings that
               originally had kitchen facilities. The seating capacity of such establishments
               shall be limited to the building, as the building existed as of January 1, 2006,
               including any decks, terraces or patios also existing as of that date.
               Banquets, private parties and other special events that take place entirely
               within approved establishments selling food and/or beverages shall be
               considered a part of the approved use.

Chapter 20-Special Uses in Historic Buildings
                                                                           39120010
December 8, 2006
                                                                                                 Page 20-7

      . Overnight    accommodations.       The     room   capacity   of such      accommodations
       shall be limited to the total number of existing rooms in the historic building as
       of January 1, 2006.

        Commercial events in the building or on the subject property.

       Wineries upon a showing that processing of wine is from grapes grown on the
       subject parcel or the local region, within a historic building, as the building
       existed as of January 1, 2006.

        Salesftasting    rooms    in conjunction    with an on-site winery,         within    a historic
        building, as the building existed as of January 1, 2006.

        Conference      and/or retreat facilities within a historic building, as the building
       existed as of January 1, 2006.

       Artist studios and galleries within a historic building, as the building existed as
       of January 1, 2006.

       Gift shops within a historic building, as the building existed as of January 1,
       2006 that are:

       (1) incidental and        subordinate   to another approved          use    included     in A(3)
           above; and

       (2) no larger than 100 square feet in area.

       Interpretive displays, picnic areas or other recreational day use activities on
       the subject parcel.     The parking limits and associated “Facility Design
       Guidelines” in the Recreation Intensity Classes are not applicable to this use.

 j.     Parking areas on the subject property to support any of the above uses.

. Land use approvals for special uses in historic buildings shall be subject to
  review by Wasco County every five years from the date the original approval was
 issued. As part of this review, the applicant shall submit documentation to Wasco
 County on the progress made in implementing the “Protection and Enhancement
 Plan’ required in B(1) below. Wasco County shall submit a copy of the
 applicant's documentation to the State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO).
 SHPO shall have 30 calendar days from the date this information is mailed to
 submit written comments to Wasco County. If Wasco County’s determination
 contradicts comments from the SHPO, Wasco County shall justify how it reached
 an opposing conclusion. Wasco County shall revoke the land use approval if the

                                 201% 0010                  Chapter 20- Special Uses in Historic Bullaings
Page 20-8

            owner has failed to implement the actions described in the “Protection and
            Enhancement Plan” according to the schedule for completing such actions in this
            plan. Wasco County may, however, allow such a use to continue for up to one
            additional year from the date Wasco County determines the applicant has failed
            to implement the actions if the applicant submits a written statement describing
            unforeseen circumstances that prevented the applicants from completing the
            specified actions according to the approved schedule, what progress the
            applicants have made towards completing such actions, and a proposed revised
            schedule for completing such actions.

    5.      Commercial events allowed in this section are not subject to the provisions of
            Section 20.300. Commercial events allowed in this section are subject to the
            following:

            a.   Commercial events include weddings,           receptions, parties and other
                 gatherings that are incidental and subordinate to the primary use on a parcel.

            b. The owner of the parcel shall notify the reviewing agency and ali owners of
               land within 500 feet of the perimeter of the subject property of each event.
               The notice shall be in writing and shall be mailed at least seven calendar
                 days before an event.

            c. Applications for commercial events shall include all information in the
               “Operational Plan for Commercial Events” as specified in B(1)(b)(4) below.

B. Additional Resource Protection Provisions for Special Uses in Historic Buildings.

     1.     Cultural Resources

            a. All applications for uses listed in A(3) above, shall include a historic survey
               and evaluation of eligibility for the National Register of Historic Places, to be
               prepared by a qualified professional hired by the applicant. The evaluation of
               eligibility shall not be required for buildings previously determined to be
               eligible. For such properties, documentation of a prior eligibility determination
               shall be included in the application. The historic survey shall meet the
               requirements specified in “Historic Surveys and Reports’, Section 14.500(M).
               The evaluation of eligibility shall follow the process and include all information
               specified in the National Register Bulletin “How to Apply the National Register
               Criteria for Evaluation” [National Park Service, National Register Bulletin #15].

                 Eligibility determinations shall be made by Wasco County based on input
                 from SHPO. Wasco County shall submit a copy of any historic survey and
                 evaluation of eligibility to SHPO. SHPO shall have 30 calendar days from the
                 date this information is mailed to submit written comments on the eligibility of

chapter vO       eons Uses in Historic Buildings                    9 0 1 rf 0 0 1 0
                                                                                        Page 20-9

   the property to Wasco County. if Wasco County's determination contradicts
   comments from SHPO, Wasco County shall justify how it reached an
   opposing conclusion.

 . Applications for Special Uses for Historic Buildings shall include a “Protection
   and Enhancement Plan’ which shall include the following:

   (1) A description of how the proposed use will significantly contribute to the
       protection and enhancement of the historic resource, including specific
       actions   that will be taken     towards   restoration,   protection   and
      enhancement,    and adequate maintenance of the historic resource, and a
      proposed schedule for completion of such actions.

   (2)A statement addressing consistency of the proposed use with the
       Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation of - Historic
      Properties and the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Preservation
       of Historic Properties.

   (3) Detailed architectural drawings and building plans that clearly illustrate all
       proposed exterior alterations to the building associated with the proposed
       use. Any exterior additions to the building or outdoor components of the
       proposed     use (e.g. parking areas, site for temporary structures,
       interpretive displays) shall be shown on the site plan.

   (4) Any proposal for commercial events at a historic property shall include an
       Operation Plan for Commercial Events, to be incorporated into the
       “Protection and Enhancement Plan”. The Operational Plan shall include
      sufficient information to demonstrate how the commercial events will
      remain incidental and subordinate to the primary use of the property, and
      shall, at minimum, address:

      (a) Number of events to be held annually.

      (b) Maximum size of events, including number of guests and vehicles at
          proposed parking area.

      (c) Provision for temporary     structures,    including     location     and    type    of
          structures anticipated.

      (d) How the proposed commercial events will contribute to protection and
          enhancement of the historic resource.

c. Wasco County shall submit a copy of the “Protection and Enhancement Plan”
   to the SHPO. SHPO shall have 30 calendar days from the date this

                      99170010
                                                    Chapter 20- Special Uses in Historic Buildings
                                                                                December 9, 2006
Page 20-10

              information is mailed to submit written comments to Wasco County. SHPO’s
              comments shall address consistency of the proposed use with the Secretary
              of the interiors Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic Properties and the
              Secretary of the interior’s Standards for Preservation of Historic Properties,
              and the effect of the proposed use on the historic resource.

              Any alterations to the building or surrounding area associated with the
              proposed use have been determined by Wasco County to be consistent with
              the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation of Historic
              Properties and the Secretary of the Interiors Standards for Preservation of
              Historic Properties. If Wasco County's final decision contradicts the
              comments submitted by SHPO, Wasco County shall justify how it reached an
              opposing conclusion.

              The proposed          use has been determined by Wasco County to have no effect
              or no adverse effect on the historic character of the property, including
              features of the property contributing to its historic significance. If Wasco
              County's final decision contradicts the comments submitted by SHPO, Wasco
              County shail justify how it reached an opposing conclusion.

    2.   Scenic Resources

         a.   New parking areas associated with the proposed use shall be located on the
              subject property as it existed as of January 1, 2006. Such parking areas may
              be developed using paving blocks, gravel, or other pervious surfaces;
              asphalt, concrete and other impervious materials shall be prohibited.

              New     parking      areas         associated   with   the   proposed   use   shall   be   visually
              subordinate from Key Viewing Areas, and shall to the maximum extent
              practicable, use existing topography and existing vegetation to achieve visual
              subordinance. New screening vegetation may be used if existing topography
              and vegetation are insufficient to help make the parking. area visually
              subordinate from Key Viewing Areas, if such vegetation would not adversely
              affect the historic character of the building’s setting.           ,

              Temporary structures associated with a commercial event (e.g. tents,
              canopies, portable restrooms) shall be placed on the subject property no
              sooner than two days before the event and removed within two days after the
              event. Alternatively, temporary structures may remain in place for up to 90
              days after the event if the local government determines that they will be
              visually subordinate from Key Viewing Areas.

    3.   Recreation Resources                        :
         The proposed use shall not detract from the   use and enjoyment of existing

phapter arate       Uses in Historic Buildings                             9 0 1   % 0 0 1 0
                                                                                    Page 20-11

  recreation resources on nearby lands.

. Agricultural and Forest Lands
  All owners of land in areas designated Large-Scale or Small-Scale Agriculture,
  Agriculture-Special, Commercial Forest Land, or Large or Small Woodland that
  are within 500 feet of the perimeter of the subject property on which the use is
  proposed to be located have been notified and given at least 10 days to
  comment prior to a decision on an application for a Special Use for a Historic
  Building.

                          9   } 1   % 0 0 1 0   Chapter 20- Special Uses in Historic Buildings
                                                                            December 9, 2006
              DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

               CHAPTER 21   LAND DIVISIONS

SECTION                                                        PAGE
21.010    PURPOSE                                              24-1
21.020    DEFINITIONS                                          24-1
21.030    BASIC PROVISIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS                241-2
21.100    LAND PARTITIONING APPROVAL                           21-9
21.110    AMENDMENTS TO PRELIMINARY PLANS AND                  21-16
          FINAL PLATS OR MAPS
21.200    PROPERTY LINE ADJUSTMENTS/REPLATS           21-18
21.300    PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAN APPROVAL       21-21
21.310    FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL             21-25
21.400    PRIVATE ROAD APPROVAL AND PUBLIC ROAD OR ~— 21-36
          STREET DEDICATIONS
21.410    IMPROVEMENTS                                21-38
21.420    PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS                    21-39
21.430    PRIVATE ROADS                               21-45
21.440    ROADWAY IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS               21-46
21.450    ACCESS CONTROL                              21-48
21.460    PEDESTRIAN ACCESS AND CIRCULATION           21-51
21.470    PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT ON VIOLATION        21-55
21.480    REPEAL AND TRANSFERRAL PROVISIONS           21-55

                                    991°0010
                                               Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                           Page 21-1

                               CHAPTER 21 LAND DIVISIONS

As authorized by law, including ORS Chapters 92, 197, and 215, subdivisions, partitions
plats, replats, property line adjustments and streets shall be approved in accordance with
this Chapter and applicable provisions of Chapter 3 - Basic Provisions, and Chapter 14 -
Scenic Area Review. The Chapter applies to all land within the unincorporated territory of
the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area portion of the County. A person desiring
to subdivide, partition, replat, adjust a common boundary line, or to create a street or a
private road shall submit preliminary plans and final documents for approval as provided
in this Chapter and state statutes. Land divisions in the Special Management Area shall
not be allowed, unless the creation of a new parcel will facilitate land acquisition by the
federal government to achieve the policies and guidelines in the Management Plan.

SECTION 21.010       Purpose

In accordance with the provisions of ORS Chapters 92,197, and 215, this Ordinance sets
forth the minimum standards governing the approval of land development, including
subdivisions, partitions, replats, and property line adjustments, as necessary to carry out
the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan and the Management Plan for the Columbia
River Gorge National Scenic Area and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare.   The purpose of these provisions and regulations are to:

A. Encourage well planned development to the end that good livable neighborhoods with
   all needed amenities and community facilities may be created.

B. Encourage development in harmony with the natural environment and within resource
    carrying capacities.

C. Safeguard the interest of the public, the applicant, and the future legal parcel owner.

D. Improve land records and boundary monumentation.

E. Ensure equitable processing of plats and plans, and accomplish to the greatest extent
    possible the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan for Wasco County and
    the Management Plan for the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area.

SECTION 21.020       Definitions

The definitions set forth in Section 1.200 of this Ordinance shall be utilized for the
purposes of this chapter.

                                                   99170010                Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                      XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-2

SECTION 21.030              Basic Provisions and Design Standards

A. Compliance required: No land within the unincorporated territory of the Columbia River
   Gorge National Scenic Area portion of Wasco County shall be subdivided or
   partitioned, and no plat shall be filed or recorded until submitted to and approved by
   the Approving Authority in accordance with ORS Chapter 92.

B. Minimum standards:            The requirements and standards set forth in this chapter are the
     minimum ones to which a subdivision, partition, or boundary adjustment must conform
     before approval by the Approving Authority.           Scenic, Natural, Cultural and
     Recreational resource buffers set forth in Chapter 14  - Scenic Area Review shall not
     be altered or varied to allow design standards to be met.

C. Conformity with the plan:    All divisions of land and boundary adjustments shall
   conform to and be in harmony with the Wasco County Comprehensive Plan and
   National Scenic Area Land Use Designation Map and the Management Plan for the
   Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area and map of that portion of the Columbia
   River Gorge National Scenic Area within which the subdivision and partition lies.

D. Conformity with zoning chapter: All divisions of land and boundary adjustments,
   regardless of the number of lots or parcels, shall comply with all specifications
   authorized by Chapter 3 of this Ordinance.       All lots created shall conform in all
   respects with the applicable regulations of Chapter 3, including uses of land, lot size
     and dimensions, space for off-street parking, landscaping and other requirements as
     may be set forth. Variances from minimum parcel sizes shall not be granted.

     Land divisions shall also be made           only in full compliance   with standards    set in
     Chapter 14 - Scenic Area Review.

E. Relation to Adjoining Street System: A subdivision or partition shall provide for the
   continuation of the principal streets existing in the adjoining subdivisions or of their
   proper projection when the adjoining property is not subdivided, and such streets shall
   be of a width not less than the minimum requirements for streets set forth in these
   regulations.

F.   Redevelopment Plan:

     1.     In subdividing or partitioning tracts of land into large lots which at some future time
            could be further divided, the Director may require that blocks and lots shall be of
            such size and shape, be so divided into lots, and meet such building site
            restrictions as will provide for extension and opening of streets at intervals which
            will permit a subsequent division of any parcel into lots of.a smaller size which shall
            have the minimum lot frontage on a street.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                     99 1°90 010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                          Page 21-3

   2. No lot in a platted subdivision shall be reduced in size from that shown on the
      recorded plat if the newly created lot will have less than the minimum lot area for
      the zone in which it is located.

   3. Any lot in a platted subdivision may be enlarged to approximate more closely the
        minimum lot area for the zone in which the lot is located, provided that no leftover
        lot areas shall be less than the minimum lot area for the zone.

   4. Any person dividing tracts of land into large lots which at some future time could be
      further divided and still meet the minimum lot size requirement of the zone in which
        the land is located shall provide suitable road access to each created parcel so
        that the future development of each parcel will provide access for redevelopment
        parcels or lots.

G. Access: A unit of land shail be considered to have access by way of a public road
   or street, private road, or private easement road, if the following criteria are satisfied:

   1.   The unit of land abuts on the road or street.

   2. There is a legal right appurtenant to the unit of land to use the road or street for
      ingress and egress. A legal right to use a private road or private easement road
      may be evidenced by: (a) an express grant or reservation of an easement in a
      document recorded with the County Clerk; (b) a decree or judgment issued by a
      court of competent jurisdiction; (c) an order of the County Governing Body; or,
      (d) an express easement set forth in a duly recorded plat.

   3. The road or street provides actual physical access for the unit of land.

H. Access Requirements for Land Divisions: Each unit of land shall be provided with
   access by a public road meeting standards noted in Table 1 (Rural Public Roadway
   Design Standards) & 2 (Urban Public Roadway Design Standards), except as
   provided below and in Table 3 (Private Access Standards):

   1.   Private Easement Road - In all zones a unit of land may have access by way of a
        private easement road upon a finding that such road provides access for not more
        than three (3) units of land and serves not more than three (3) units of land.

        The requirements of Section 21.300 are not applicable to a Private Easement
        Road.

        If the private easement road could provide access for more than three (3) units of
        land based   on existing zoning, structural setbacks shall be established from the
        potential right of way of the public or private road and not the right of way of the
        private easement road.

                                                2 4) 1   * 0 0 1 0        Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                    XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-4

     2.     Private Road - In resource areas only (areas zoned F-1, F-3, A-1 and A-2), a unit
            of land may have access by way of a private road upon findings of the Approving
            Authority that:

            a.   Such private road provides access for not more than ten (10) units of land and
                 serves not more than ten (10) units of land;

            b. Private road approval is obtained pursuant to Section 21.400;

            c.   Private road   is constructed to standards     of Section   21.430 when     more than
                 three (3) units of land use roadway;

            d. The primary use of the road is to provide access               for resource    activities.
               Conflicting uses shall be minimized;

            e. When service to more than ten (10) units of land is possible, provision shall be
               made to serve the area by public road, including but not limited to: (a)
               dedication of right-of-way; (b) extension and improvement of the roadway to
               public road standards such that not more than ten (10) units of land may be
                 served.

            If the private road could provide access for more than ten (10) units of land based
            on existing zoning, structural setbacks shall be established from the potential right
            of way of the public road and not the right of way of the private road.

|.   Alignment: As far as practical, streets shall be in alignment with existing streets by
     continuations of the center lines thereof. Staggered street alignment resulting in "T”
     intersections shall wherever practical leave a minimum distance of 200 feet between
     the center lines of streets having approximately the same direction and otherwise shall
     not be less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet.

J.   Half Streets: Half streets, while generally not acceptable, may be approved where
     essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision or partition when in
     conformity with the requirements of this Ordinance and when possible to require the
     dedication of the other half when the adjoining property is subdivided. Whenever an
     existing half street is adjacent to land to be subdivided, the remaining half of the street
     shall be dedicated within such subdivision. Reserve strips and street plugs may be
     required to insure the objectives of obtaining full width streets.

K. Streets Adjacent to Railroads, Freeways and Parkways:               When a subdivision or
   partition contains or is adjacent to a railroad, a parallel street may be required on each
   side of such railroad. A land strip of not less than twenty-five (25) feet in width shall
   be provided along a railroad right-of-way for screen planting or park purposes between

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                        9 0 4 a 9 0 1 0)
XX, XOKKX 2010
                                                                                         Page 21-5

  the railroad and residential lots. Parallel, local service streets shall be provided on
  each side of a freeway or parkway either within or abutting their right-of-way. When
  such parallel streets are less than eighty (80) feet from such freeway or parkway the
  intervening property shall be used for only park or thoroughfare purposes. Streets
  paralleling railroads, at those cross streets where grade separations are proposed,
  shall be located at a distance from the railroad that provides for such grade separation
  structure.

. Existing Streets:  Whenever existing streets adjacent to or within a tract are of
  inadequate width, additional right-of-way shall be provided at the time of subdivision or
  partitioning.

. Future Extension of Streets:     Where necessary to give access to or permit a
  satisfactory future subdivision or  partitioning of adjoining land, streets shall be
  extended to the boundary of the subdivision or partition and the resulting dead-end
  streets may be approved without a tumaround.         Reserve strips and street plugs may
  be required to preserve the objectives of street extensions.

. Alleys: The minimum width of alleys, when provided in residential blocks, shall be
  twenty (20) feet. Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts and
  shall not be less than twenty (20) feet in width. The corners of ail alleys at their
  intersection with streets and other alleys shall be rounded and have a radius of not
  less than ten (10) feet.

. Pedestrian Ways: When desirable for public convenience, pedestrian ways may be
  required to connect to cul-de-sacs or to pass through unusually long or oddly shaped
  blocks.

. Cul-De-Sacs: In general, dead-end (cul-de-sac) streets are not desirable, but if
  provided, shall terminate in a turnaround that is consistent with Chapter 11 and the
  local fire department.

. Street intersections:

  41. All streets shall intersect at right angles (90 degrees) one to the other; where an
       intersection at ninety (90) degrees cannot be secured by reason of physical
       conditions of the site an angular intersection of not less than sixty (60) degrees
       may be permitted.
  2.   Property corners at street intersections shall be rounded and with a radius of not
       less than ten (10) feet.

 3.    Major thoroughfares intersections shall have roadway curb radii of not less than
       twenty-five (25) feet; all other street intersections shall have roadway curb radii of
       not less than twenty (20) feet.

                                             201°0010
                                                      ee   Rm            Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                               ace           ,                      XX, 1000 2010
Page 21-6

R. Reserve Strios:            Reserve strips or street plugs dedicated to the County and controlling
     the access to a street may be approved or required when necessary to:

     4.     Prevent access to the street on a side where additional width is required to meet
            the minimum right-of-way standards;

     2.     Prevent access to abutting property at the end of a street in order to assure the
            proper extension of the street pattern and the orderly development of land lying
            beyond the street; or

     3.     Prevent the uncontrolled development of land.

S. Marginal Access Streets:     Where a subdivision or partition abuts or contains an
   existing or proposed arterial street, the Approving Authority may require marginal
   access streets, reverse frontage lots with suitable depth, screen planting contained in
     a non-access            reservation   along   the   rear or side      property   line, or other treatment
     necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
     through and local traffic.

T.   Utility Lines:          Easements     for sewers,    water   mains,     electrical lines, or other public
     utilities shall be dedicated whenever necessary.                   The easements shall be at least
     twelve (12) feet wide and centered on lot lines where possible, except for utility pole
     tieback easements which may be reduced to six feet in width.

U. Water Courses: If a subdivision or partition plat is traversed by a water course such
   as a drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water
   easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the water
   course, and such further width as will be adequate for the purpose.         Streets or
   parkways parallel to major water courses may be required.

V. Environmental Hazards: If a subdivision or partition contains known hazards resulting
   from potential for flooding, land movement, high water tables, erosion, or similar
   natural phenomena, the Approving Authority may require dedication of protective
   easements for uses that would minimize aggravation of the environmental hazard.

W. Blocks: No block shall exceed twelve hundred (1200) feet in length between streets.
   In blocks over eight hundred (800) feet in length there shall be a cross walkway of not
   less than ten (10) feet in width, near the middle of the block. The width of blocks shall
   be such as to allow two tiers of lots, except where in the opinion of the Approving
   Authority a relatively short length of double frontage lots are unavoidable.

 Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                              2 0 1 > 0 0 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                           Page 21-7

X. Lots:

   4.   Lot size, width, shape and orientation shall be appropriate for the location of the
        subdivision and for the types of use permitted. Lot dimensions shall not include
        part of existing or proposed streets. All lots shall be buildable, except a public
        utility lot. Depth and width of utility lots shall be adequate to provide for standard
        setbacks for service structures, and to furnish off-street parking facilities required
        by the kind of use contemplated. In no other case shail the width or area be less
        than that prescribed for the zone in which the lot is proposed.

   2.   Each side lot line shall be at right angles to the adjacent street line or radial to a
        curved street line, unless the Approving Authority determines that variation from
        these requirements is necessitated by unusual circumstances such as topography
        and site location.

   3.   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided, except where the Approving Authority
        determines that such lots are essential to provide separation or residential
        development from major traffic arterials or adjacent non-residential activities, or to
        overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. A planting screen
        easement at least ten (10) feet wide, across which there shall be no rights of
        access, may be required along the line of lots abutting such a traffic arterial or
        other incompatible use. Such area shall be considered the rear portion of the lot.

   4.   Flag lots shail not be permitted, except when unusual circumstances exist. Such
        circumstances may include characteristics of topography and site which affect
        construction on the property or access to the property. Approval of the creation of
        flag lots by the Approving Authority shall be based on specific findings indicating
        what unusual circumstances exist.

Y. Public Open Space: School sites, neighborhood playgrounds, parks and recreation
   areas shall be located in accordance to the development pattem of the County or the
   County area. When such public school or recreation sites are within the area of an
   approved subdivision they may be dedicated to the County or shall be reserved until
   such time as the County is able to acquire them. Parks and recreation areas shali be
   provided at the rate of one (1) acre of recreation area to every one hundred people.

Z. Subdivision Name: The name of any subdivision shall not duplicate or be so similar
   as to be confused with the name of any existing subdivision or parce! or area within
   the County.

AA.Street Names: Except for extensions of existing streets, no street name shall be used
   which will duplicate or be confused with the names of existing streets. Street names
   and numbers shall conform to the established pattern.in the surrounding area and, if
    near a city, to the pattem in the city, and shall be subject to the approval of the

                                                 9010010                   Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                      XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-8

    Approving Authority.

BB.Street Signs: All street and highway signs shall meet the County standards for
   such signs.

Chapter 24-Land Divisions           ,              90 15 00 1 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                                   Page 21-9

SECTION 21.100        Land Partitioning Approval

A. Approval of Preliminary Partition Plans:

   4. An application for preliminary partition plan approval shall be initiated as provided
      in Chapter 2.                    ;

   2.   In addition to the complete application requirements for Chapter 14 - Scenic Area
        Review,    a preliminary   partition   application,   plan   and   supporting   documentation
        shall include the following:

        a. a vicinity map of such scale to clearly locate the proposed partitioning in
           relation to adjacent subdivisions, partitions, roadways and other land parcels;

        b. any existing permanent structures and their setbacks to existing and proposed
             property lines;

        c.   all existing and proposed means of utilities for each tract including but not
             limited to water, primary and secondary septic drainfields, sewer lines,
             telephone lines, and electrical lines;

        d. predominant topographical features such as bluffs and rock outcroppings;

        @.   areas subject to sliding or other natural hazards;

        f.   areas subject to flooding and all water courses and their directional flows,
             including marshes and wetlands;

        g. north point, scale and date;

        h. zoning classification and plan map designation of the land;

        i.   aplan of the proposed partitioning, showing boundaries of the total contiguous
             ownership, boundaries of each proposed tract, the number assigned to each
             tract, acreage of each tract and location and name of existing and proposed
             streets and roads;

        j.   all existing and proposed public and private easements, restrictions, and
             covenants providing for, or affecting ail services, utilities, or access must be
             shown on the face of the map along with the legal description.             If it is a
             pre-existing easement or if the easement has been filed with the County Cierk
             prior to the final approval of the land partition, then the Recorder's number shall
             appear on the face of the map; and

                                                          991°0010
                                                                                   Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                              XX, OCKK 2010
Page 21-10

          k.     if not sewered and located in an "F-1", "F-3", "A-1" or "A-2” zone, a statement
                 signed by an authorized representative of the Department of Environmental
                 Quality, State of Oregon, or County Sanitarian regarding the suitability of each
                 parcel to be partitioned for subsurface sewage disposal; or a signed statement
                 shown on the face of the final partition plan that no investigation has been
                 made of the suitability of any given parcel by an authorized representative of
                 the Department of Environmental Quality, and that no warranty is made that
                 any parcel will be usable for subsurface sewage disposal; or

                 if not sewered and located in an "RR" or "PR" zone, a statement signed by an
                 authorized representative of the Department of Environmental Quality
                 approving each parcel to be partitioned for subsurface sewage disposal; or a
                 statement   signed   by the County   Sanitarian   or an   officer of a public sewer
                 district or corporation warranting the availability of sewer hook-ups for each
                 parcel to be partitioned.

     3.   Standards for approval of a preliminary partition plan.

          a. A decision on a preliminary partition plan application shall be made by the
             Approving Authority as provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

                 The preliminary partition plan shall be approved if the Approving Authority finds
                 that the information required by this subsection has been provided, if the
                 proposal complies with Chapter 3 - Basic Provisions, and Chapter 14 - Scenic
                 Area Review, and if the standards of Section 21.030 have been met.

    4.    The Approving Authority may require dedication or reservation of land and utility or
          drainage easements; and may impose conditions promoting redevelopment of the
          parcels if, in view of the zoning and plan map designation, the acreage of a parcel
          or parcels in contiguous ownership make additional partitioning of the subject
          property feasible.

B. Approval of Final Partition Plat:

     4. Within twenty four (24) months from the date of preliminary partition approval, the
        applicant shall initiate a request for final partition plat approval by filing with the
        Director a final plat prepared in accordance to those standards in this section.

     2. The approval of a final partition map by the Director is a ministerial action.           The
        Director shall grant final approval if he determines that:

          a. the final plat and any supporting documents are in substantial conformance
             with the approved preliminary partition plan;

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                          99150019
XX, XXXXK 2010
                                                                                      Page 21-11

        b. any conditions imposed by the Approving Authority have been met;

             Substantial conformance means that any differences between the preliminary
             and final plans are "minor amendments”, as defined in Section 21.110 that
             clearly will not adversely affect scenic, natural, cultural or recreational
             resources.

   3. All access easements created as part of land partitioning become effective when
      the plat is recorded by the County Clerk If an access easementis pre-existing or if
      the access easement has been recorded with the County Clerk prior to the final
      approval of the land partition, then the recorded Document Number shall appear
      on the face of the plat.

   4. The granting of final plat approval shall not be affected by a change in the zone or
      plan map designation of the subject property made after approval of the
      preliminary partition plat.

   5. After approval of the final partition plat, the Director, County Surveyor,
      Assessor/Tax Collector, and Clerk shall endorse their approval on the original plat.
      The original plat shall be recorded with the County Clerk and a copy with the
      County Surveyor's Office.

   6.   Pursuant to Oregon Revised Statute (O.R.S.) 92.055 a parcel larger than ten (10)
        acres is not required to be surveyed and monumented but shall comply with the
        following:

        a. The approximate acreage of each unsurveyed parcel shall be shown.

        b. Any unsurveyed parcel shall have the word “unsurveyed” placed in bold
           letters adjacent to the parcel number on the plat at provided in (5) above.

        c.   Unsurveyed parcels need not comply with O.R.S. 92.050(5), (7) and (8).

   7.   Pursuant to (O.R.S.) 92.095, prior to recordation of the final partition map, the
        current years’ taxes must be paid in full. (The tax year runs from July 1* through
        June 30").

C. Final Land Partition Plat Requirements:

   4. Conformance to preliminary plan.       The map   shall substantially conform to the
      preliminary plan as approved.

   2.   Preparation of the Plat.

                                                    2 0 1 S 0 0 1 0    Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                  XX, AXXX 2010
Page 21-12

         a.   A plat shall be prepared on 4 mill (minimum) double matte polyester film,
              approved by the County Surveyor, on a standard 18” x 24” sheet, with archival
              permanent     black   ink, in a format available   at the Wasco   County   Surveyors
              Office.

         b. All signatures on the original must be in archival quality black ink.

         c. The lettering shall be a size or type to be clearly legible when copies are made.

         d. A face sheet an index must be included for a plat with 3 or more sheets.

    3. Compliance with ORS 209.250. A             plat shall comply with all requirements of ORS
       209.250 including:

         a    Narrative

         b. Location of the survey by one-fourth section, Township and Range.

              Date of the survey.

              Scale and North Arrow. The plat shall be drawn to a standard engineering
              scale sufficient to depict the change, approved by the County Surveyor.

              The distance and course of all lines traces or established, giving the basis of
              bearing.

              Measured bearings and distances used as a basis for establishing or
              reestablishing lines or monuments separately indicated from those of record.

              Monuments set and their relation to older monuments found.        A detailed
              description of monuments found and set shall be included and all monuments
              set shall be separately indicated from those found.

         h. The surveyor’s seal and original signature.

              The surveyor's business name and address.

    4.   Compliance with O.R.S. 92.050. A person shall not submit a plat of a partition for
         record until all the requirements of O.R.S. 209.250 and the plat requirements of
         the partition have been met.

              The survey for the plat shall be done in a manner to achieve sufficient accuracy
              that measurements may be taken between monuments within one-tenth of a

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                 99120010
XX, XXOKX 2010
                                                                                      Page 21-13

  foot or one ten-thousandth        of the distance shown       on the plat, whichever        is
  greater.

. The plat shall be made by professional land surveyor.

. The plat shall be of sufficient scale and lettering size, approved by the County
  Surveyor, so that:

  (1) The survey and mathematical information and all other details are clearly
      and legibly shown on the plat.

  (2) Each lot or parcel is numbered consecutively.

  (3) The lengths and courses of the boundaries of each lot or parcel are shown
       on the plat.

  (4) Each street is named and shown on the plat.

. The locations and descriptions of all monuments found or set must be carefully
  recorded upon the plat and the proper courses and distances of all boundary
  lines, conforming to the Surveyor's Certificate, must be show.

. The location, dimensions and purpose of alt recorded and proposed public and
  private easements must be shown on the plat along with the County Clerk's
  recording reference if the easement has been recorded with the County Clerk.
  Private easements become effective upon the recording of the plat.

  The area of each lot or parcel must be shown on the plat, to the nearest one-
  hundredth of an acre.

. In   addition    to   showing   bearings   in   degrees,   minutes   and   seconds,      and
  distances in feet and hundredths of a foot, the following curve information must
  be shown on the plat:

  (1) Arc length

  (2) Chord length

  (3) Chord bearing

  (4) Radius

  (5) Central Angle

                                         2 Q 1 ° 0 0 1 0                Chapter otLand Divisions
                                                                                  XX, KKKX 2010
Page 21-14

         h. The final plat may not be required to show any information or requirement that
            is or may be subject to administrative change or variance by the county, or any
            other information unless authorized by the County Surveyor.       Examples of
            authorized information include:

              (1) Parcels located in an "F-1", "F-3", "A-1" or "A-2" zone shall contain the
                  following statement” “No investigation has been made of the suitability of
                   any given parcel by an authorized representative of the Department of
                   Environmental Quality, and no warranty is made that any given parcel will
                  be used for subsurface sewage disposal. If subsurface sewage disposal
                  evaluations have been completed, a copy shall be filed with the Wasco
                   County Planning Department.

              (2) Parcels located in any other zone shall contain the following statement:
                  “The parcels have been approved for subsurface sewage disposal by an
                  authorized representative of the Oregon Department of Environmental
                  Quality.”

              (3) Planning Department File Number

              (4) Tax lot Information

              (5) Zoning classification and Plan Designation

              (6) Table indicating the acreages of all existing and newly created parcels.

              (7) Assessor Account Number for each existing property

    5.Monuments.

         a. The Initial Point of a plat must be on the exterior boundary of the plat and must
            be marked with a monument meeting the specifications of ORS 92.060(1).
            The location of the monument shall be with reference by survey to a known
              corner, per ORS 92.060 and shown on the plat.

         b.   The exterior boundary and all parcel corners must be monumented          per ORS
              92.060.

         c.   For partitions involving land in a flood plain, the provisions of 21.310(B)(8)(e)
              shall apply. ©

    6.   Surveyor’s Certificate. The plat must include a Surveyor’s Certificate, together with
         the seal and signature of the surveyor of record, to the effect that the surveyor has
         correctly surveyed and marked with proper monument the lands represented,

                                                                 9, Q 1 f   0 0 1 0
Chapter 21-Land Divisions
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                             Page 21-15

      including the initial point of the plat and its location, and accurately describing by
      metes and bounds, or other description as approved by the County Surveyor, the
      tract of land upon which the parcels are laid out.

7.    Declaration.

           The plat shall include a declaration, taken before a notary public, stating that
           the declarant has caused the plat to be prepared in accordance with the
           provisions of ORS 92.

      b. Any dedication of land to public purposes or any public or private easements
         create, or any other restrictions made, shall be included in the Declaration.

     c.     \f the declarant is not the fee owner of the property, the fee owner and the
           vendor under any instrument of sale shal! also execute the Declaration for the
           purpose of consenting to the property being partitioned.

      d. If the plat contains any dedication or donation of land to public purposes, the
           holder of any mortgage or trust deed shall also execute the Declaration

      e.    Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection a. to d., the fee owner, vendor or
           the mortgage trust deed holder may record             an affidavit consenting       to the
           declaration, pursuant to ORS 92.075(4).

8.    General Information.

           Streets or Road for public use are dedicated without reservation or restriction
           other than reversionary rights upon vacation.

           All easements provided for public services, utilities, or access are shown on the
           face of the plat along with the legal description and any limitations of the
           easements. If it is a pre-existing easement or if the easement has been filed
           with the County Clerk prior to the final approval of the land partition, then the
           Recorders number shall appear on the face of the plat.

            Names    and   addresses   of the partitioner,   owner,   mortgagee,   if any,   and   the
            person preparing the plat are shown.

           The names of any streets intersecting or within the parcels are shown.

           All easements provided for public services, utilities, or access must be shown
           on the face of the map along with the legal description and any limitations of
           the easements. If it is a pre-existing easement or if the easement has been

                                                    agi        oe 10          Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                         XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-16

                filed with the County Clerk prior to the final approval of the land partition, then
                the Recorder's number shall appear on the face of the map.

                Zoning classification and Plan Designation

                Space for date and signatures of the following officials for maps of partitions:

                (1) County Planning Director or designee                     .

                (2) County Surveyor

                (3) County Assessor/Tax Collector

     8.   County     Surveyor     Fees:     In the   cases    where   partitions      are   required    to   be
          surveyed, if the interior monuments          are not set prior to the approval of the plat,
          the subdivider shall pay an additional fee to the County Surveyor equal to fifty
          percent (50%) of that fee provided in O.R.S. 92.100(2), to cover the second field
          check as provided in post monumentation. In the event a second field and/or
          office check becomes necessary because of substantial discrepancies found in
          the first check, the County Surveyor may, at his discretion, charge a second fee
          or partial fee.

SECTION 21.110              Amendments to Preliminary Plans and Finai Plats or Maps

A.   Definitions:

     4.   "Minor Amendment" means a change which:

          a.    Does not change the number of parcels created by the subdivision or partition;

          b. Does      not enlarge    the    boundaries      of subdivided       partitioned,   or   boundary
                adjusted area;

                Does not change the general location or amount of land devoted to a specific
                land use; or

                Includes only minor shifting of the established lines, location of buildings,
                proposed public or private streets, pedestrian ways, utility easements, parks or
                other public open spaces; or

          e.    Shall not adversely affect scenic, natural, cultural or recreational resources.

     2.   "Major Amendment" means any change which is not a minor amendment.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
XX, XXKX 2010
                                                                90160010
                                                                                       Page 21-17

B. Approval of Minor Amendments: A minor amendment to an approved preliminary
   subdivision, partition, or boundary adjustment plan or to an approved final subdivision,
   partition, or boundary adjustment plat or map may be approved by the Director.

C. Approval of Major Amendments:     Approval of a major amendment to an approved
   preliminary subdivision partition, or boundary adjustment plan or to an approved final
   subdivision, partition, boundary adjustment plat shall be subject to the provisions of
   Chapter 2.

                                                   991°0010
                                                                        Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                   XX, XXKK 2010
Page 21-18

SECTION 21.200              Property Line Adjustments & Replats

A. Property Line Adjustments

     4. Application - The decision on a request for a Property Line Adjustment shall be
          under Chapter 2.       A completed application, as prescribed by the Director, shall be
          filed prior to any action on a Property Line Adjustment. A completed application
          shall contain the same information required for preliminary partition plans in
          Section 21.100(A).

     2.   Approval     Standards    for ali zones   except Agriculture      Special,   Open   Space   and
          Public Recreation: The request for a property line adjustment shall be approved
          by the Director if the following criteria are met;

              The adjustment will not result in the creation of any new parcel(s).

          b. GMA Only: The adjustment shall not result in the potential to create a new
             parcel(s) or residential development in excess of the maximum density
             allowed by the land use designation(s) for the affected parcels.

              Adjustments that would result in the potential to create additional parcels
              through subsequent land divisions, shall be subject to the full provisions of
              Chapter 14 Scenic Area Review.

              The proposal will not render any property unusable, nor shall the usefulness,
              utility or viability of the property    be   reduced   from     the designated    purpose
              statement of the zoning district in which the property is located.

              GMA Only:        Property which presently conforms to the lot size requirements of
              the zoning district in which it is located shall not become nonconforming as a
              result of the property line adjustment, except to allow a public or non-profit
              entity to acquire land for the purpose of protecting and enhancing scenic,
              cultural, recreation or natural resources, provided the land to be acquired
              would be protected by a conservation easement or other similar property
              restriction that precludes future land divisions and development.

              SMA Only:        The adjustment shall not result in a parcel greater than or equal
              to 40 acres becoming less than 40 acres.

              SMA Only: The adjustment shall not result in a parcel less than 40 acres
              becoming 40 acres or greater.

              Property line adjustments shall result in greater conformity where it can be
              achieved. Property line adjustments to nonconforming property (less than the

moan                                                                          201°0010
Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                               Page 21-19

 current minimum lot size in the GMA and less than 40 acres in the SMA) shall
 not result in greater nonconformity, except to accomplish one of the following
 purposes:

 (1) Resolve boundary disputes, correct physical encroachments, provide
     reasonable access, or meet buffer or set back requirements, provided:

     (a) in the GMA, the parcel to be enlarged would not become eligible for a
         subsequent land division and in the SMA the parcel to be enlarged
         would not become 40 acres or greater, and

     (b) the amount of land transferred would         be the minimum      necessary to
         resolve the issue.

 (2) Allow   a public or non-profit entity to acquire      land for the purpose        of
     protecting and enhancing scenic, cultural, recreation or natural resources,
     provided the land to be acquired would be protected by a conservation
     easement or other similar property restriction that precludes future land
     divisions (in the GMA) and residential development.

. (GMA Only): Adjusted      property   lines may    cross zoning   district boundaries
  unless

  (1) The adjustment will increase the number of parcels or lots which could
      potentially be created, based on the density requirements of the
     applicable zoning district; or

 (2) The adjustment will allow the boundary of a parcel designated Large-
     Scale Agricuiture, Agriculture Special,  Commercial    Forest,    Large
     Woodland or Open Space to be extended         into another   land   use
     designation for the purpose of establishing a dwelling under less stringent
     guidelines   (e.g.,   extending   a   parcel   designated     GMA     Large-Scale
     Agriculture into a parcel designated Rural Center or Residential).

. The adjustment will not cause any previously approved parcels or
  developments to violate conditions of approval or become out of compliance
  or further out of compliance with existing land use and resource protection
  criteria, including, but not limited to, requirements for setbacks, buffer zones
  and landscaping.

 The adjustment shall not result in a parcel that cannot comply with existing
 land use and resource protection criteria, including, but not limited to
 requirements for setbacks, buffer zones and landscaping.

                                             9 0 1 fe 0 0 1 0      Chapter 2    Ue   2010
Page 21-20

          j-    Proposed property line adjustments which have the net result of physically
                relocating a parcel to a new location beyond an existing common boundary
                line or which requires the creation of a private or public road will not be acted
                on, and must be reviewed under Section 21.100 of the Wasco County Land
                Use and Development Ordinance.

    3.    (GMA Only):Approval Standards for Agriculture Special, Open          Space and Public
          Recreation Zones
          In addition to meeting the standards of 2(a), (g), (h), & (i) above, adjustments
          Shall comply with the following standards:

                Agriculture Special & Open Space: The adjustment may be allowed upon
                demonstration that it is necessary to facilitate efforts to protect and enhance
                scenic, cultural, natural, or recreation resources. (Note: There is no specified
                minimum parcel size for parcels designated Agriculture Special or Open
                Space.)

                Public Recreation: The adjustment may be allowed upon demonstration that
                itis necessary to facilitate, enhance, or otherwise improve recreation uses on
                the parcel. (Note: There are no specified    minimum    parcel sizes for parcels
                designated Public Recreation.)

    4.    Survey Requirements for Property Line Adjustments: An adjusted property line
          created by the relocation of a common boundary as described in ORS 92.010
          (7)(b) shall be subject to the final mapping requirements listed in 21.100(B) & (C).
          In addition the final map shall contain a written legal description of all newly
          created legal parcels as a result of the property line adjustment.

B. Replats shall be reviewed according to 1 or 2 below with the exception that the
   requirements of ORS 92.180 - 92.190 shall apply.

     4.   Replats which result in a reconfiguration between lots or parcels in a recorded
          subdivision or partition, a decrease of lots in a recorded subdivision, or a correction
          of an error or irregularity in the original plat shall be reviewed according to A above.

    2.    Replats which result in an increase in the number of lots in a recorded subdivision
          shall be reviewed according to Section 21.100, Land Partitioning Approval.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
XX, XXXX 2010                                                          991°0010
                                                                                         Page 21-21

SECTION 21.300       Preliminary Subdivision Plan Approval

The approval of a preliminary subdivision plan is reviewed by the Planning Commission
subject to the provisions of Chapter 2.

A. Application for Preliminary Subdivision Plan Approval:

     1. An application for preliminary subdivision      plan approval   shall be initiated as
        provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

        In addition to the complete application requirements for Chapter 14 - Scenic Area
        Review the applicant shall file with the Director a preliminary subdivision plan,
        together with improvement plans and other supplementary information required
        by B belwo to demonstrate the design and objectives of the subdivision.

        The preliminary plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn. It shall show ail required
        information to scale so that the Approving Authority may have an adequate
        understanding of what is proposed. Under ordinary circumstances, the scale of
        the drawing is to be one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet, or one (1) inch
        equals fifty (50) feet.

B.   Information Required in the Preliminary Subdivision Plan:

     1. All existing and proposed means of utilities for each tract including but not limited
        to water, sewer, telephone lines, and electrical lines.

        Any existing permanent structures and their setbacks to existing and proposed
        subdivision lot lines.

        Predominant topographical features such as bluffs and rock outcroppings.

        Typical cross-sections of proposed streets, showing all improvements proposed
        within the street right-of-way at such scale to clearly show the details thereof.

        Contour lines may be required at intervals to be determined by the Director.

        The names of adjacent subdivisions          or the   names   of recorded     owners      of
        adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land.

        The location, width and names of all existing or plotted streets or other public
        ways within or adjacent to the tract, existing permanent buildings, railroad
        rights-of-way and other important features such as section lines, political
        subdivisions or corporation lines and school district boundaries.

                                                    201°0 010             Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                     XX, XXKXK 2010
Page 21-22

    8. Vicinity sketch showing how the proposed streets and aileys may connect with
       existing streets in neighboring subdivisions or undeveloped property.

    9. Zoning classification and plan map designation of the land.

    10. The location of any environmental hazard; area unsuitable for building purposes;
        or land subject to mass movement, excessive erosion, or similar natural
         phenomena.

    11. The proposed name of the subdivision.

    12.North point, scale, date of preparation, and basis of bearing.

    13.Areas subject to flooding, storm water overflow and all water courses and their
       directional flows, including marshes and wetlands;

    14.Names and addresses of the subdivider, owner, mortgagee,                  if any and of the
       engineer, surveyor or land planner or landscape architect.

    15. The tract description according to the real estate records of Wasco County.

    16. The boundary lines (accurate in scale) of the tract to be subdivided.

    17.All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or reserved in the
        deeds for the use of all property owners in the proposed subdivision, together
        with the purpose of conditions or limitations of such reservation, if any.

    18.All existing and proposed public and private easements, restrictions, and
        covenants providing for, or affecting all services, utilities, or access must be shown
        on the face of the map along with the legal description. If it is a pre-existing
        easement or if the easement has been filed with the County Clerk prior to the final
        approval of the land partition, then the Recorder's number shall appear on the face
         of the map; and

    19. Proposed        lots, approximate lot dimensions, and lot numbers.       Where lots are to
         be used for purposes other than residential, it shall be indicated upon such lots.

    20. Parks, playgrounds, recreation areas, parkways, and other open space for public
        use.

    21.Locations of proposed tree plantings or other plantings.          Appropriate information
       clearly stating the map is a tentative plan.

    22.Proposed         source   of water supply,   if any; estimated   volume    to be available,

Chapter 21-Land Divisions

Oe OKANO                                                                 201°0010
                                                                                                          Page 21-23

        together with data regarding the location, type, and size of all storage facilities,
        distribution lines, fire hydrants, and gate valves.

     23. If domestic water supply proposed by the developer includes the drilling of wells,
         information on the feasibility of well drilling. Such information will be provided
        even if the developer is not required by the Commission to drill the wells.

     24. The proposed method of sewage disposal.

        a.   If to be served by a community sewer system, data regarding the location, type,
             size, approximate grade, and capacity of all collection lines, feeder lines, trunk
             lines,   pumping   stations,   storage   facilities,     backflow    prevention        devices,   and
             gate valves. If treatment is to be accomplished by an existing municipal or
             public sewage facility, a statement regarding the ability of the facility to
             accommodate the projected increased load. If treatment is to be accomplished
             by a new installation or privately owned treatment facility, a statement regarding
             conformity to applicable regulations of the Oregon State Department of
             Environmental Quality.

        b. If to be served by a community collection and storage system, data regarding
           the location, type, size, approximate grade, and capacity of all lines, holding
             tanks, storage facilities, pumping facilities, and valves.

        c.   If to be served by subsurface sewage disposal, a statement from an authorized
             representative of the Department of Environmental Quality, State of Oregon, or
             the County Sanitarian regarding the approval of each lot or parcel to be sold for
             installation of septic tank facilities.

     25. Proposed building setback lines.

C.   Development Phasing:

     4. A preliminary subdivision plan may provide for platting in as many as three (3)
        phases. The preliminary plan must show each phase and be accompanied by
        proposed time limitations for approval of the final plat for each phase.

     2. Time limitations for the various phases must meet the following requirements:

        a.   Phase 1 final plat shall        be   approved          within   twenty   four   (24)     months      of
             preliminary approval.

        b.: Phase 2 final plat shall be approved within thirty six (36) months of preliminary
            approval.

                                                                                         Chapter 21-Land Divislons
                                                      291°0010                                        XX, 2000 2010
Page 21-24

          c.   Phase        3 final   plat   shall   be   approved   within   forty eight   (48)   months   of
               preliminary approval.

D. Criteria for Approval of Preliminary Subdivision Plan:

     4. A decision on the preliminary subdivision plan application shall be made by the
        Approving Authority as provided in Chapter 2.

     2. The preliminary subdivision plan shail be approved                     if the Approving Authority
        finds the following:

          a. The information required by this Chapter has been provided;

          b. The standards of Section 21.030 have been met; and

          c.   If the preliminary plan provides for development in more than one phase, the
               Approving Authority makes findings and conclusions that such phasing is
               necessary due to the nature of the development, and that the applicant will be
               able to comply with the proposed time limitations.

E.   Duration of Preliminary Subdivision Plan Approval:

     4. Approval       of a preliminary subdivision            pian shall be valid for twenty four (24)
          months     from the date of approval             of the preliminary plan, provided       that if the
          approved preliminary plan provides for phased development, the approval shail
          be valid for the time specified for each phase, subject to the limitations of (C)(2)
          above.

     2.   If any time limitation is exceeded, approval of the preliminary subdivision plan,
          and any subsequent phases, shall be void. Any subsequent proposal by the
          applicant for division of the property shall require a new development request.

F.   Granting of Extensions:

     4. An applicant may request an extension of the validity of a preliminary subdivision
        plan approval, or, if the preliminary plan provides for phased development, an
        extension of the validity of preliminary approval with respect to the phase the
        applicant is then developing.         Such request shall be considered an
        Administrative Action and shall be submitted to the Director, in writing, prior to
        expiration of such approval, stating the reason why an extension should be
          granted.
     2. The Director may grant one extension of up to twelve (12) months in the validity
        of a preliminary subdivision plan approval or, if the preliminary plan provides for
        phased development, one extension of up to twelve (12) months in the validity of

Chapter 21-Land Divisions

meee                                                                             20120010
                                                                                       Page 21-25

          a preliminary subdivision plan approval with respect to the phase then being
          developed, if it is determined that a change of conditions, for which the applicant
          was not responsible, would prevent the applicant from obtaining final plat
          approval within the original time limitation.

SECTION 21.310        Final Subdivision Plat Approval

Approval of a final subdivision plat is reviewed by the Planning Commission and subject
to the provision of Chapter 2.

A. Application for Final Subdivision Approval:

     1.   Before expiration of the validity of the preliminary subdivision plan approval
          obtained pursuant to 21.300, the applicant shall cause an Oregon licensed land
          surveyor to survey the subdivision and to prepare a final plat, in conformance
          with the approved preliminary plan.

          The applicant shall initiate a request for final plat approval     by filing with the
          Director a final plat, an exact reproducible copy, other supporting documents as
          described in B, Final Subdivision Plat Requirements through D, Performance
          Bond, below, and the appropriate fees as established by the County Governing
          Body.

B.   Final Subdivision Plat Requirements:

          The final plat shall be prepared in conformance with all provisions of this Section.

          Prior to submission for final approval, the final subdivision plat shall be signed by
          all persons who own land in the subdivision and the mortgagees, or by their
          authorized representatives or any title-holder. The plat shall bear the signature
          and seal of the licensed land surveyor responsible for its preparation and
          certification that the plat has been correctly surveyed and properly monumented.
          All signatures must be with black ink.

          Conformance to preliminary plan.      The plat map shall substantially conform to
          the preliminary plan as approved.                                                      ;

     4.   Preparation. All plat maps shall be prepared       by a professional land surveyor
          registered with the State of Oregon.

          Format. The plats shall be drawn with an archival quality black permanent ink,
          approved by the County Surveyor, on 4 mil (minimum) thick polyester based
          transparent drafting film, or an equivalent, matted on both sides, eighteen inches

                                                   201°0010                 ners 2 200K2010
Page 21-26

          by twenty-four inches (18"x24") in size. The quality of said drafting film and any
          other drafting particulars will be subject to the County Surveyor's approval. No
          diazo process may be used.

    6.    Scale. The plat shall be drawn to a standard engineering scale sufficient to depict
          the subdivision of land approved by the County Surveyor.

     7.   Survey Accuracy. The survey for the plat shall be done in such a manner to
          achieve sufficient accuracy that measurements may be taken between
          monuments within one-tenth of a foot or one ten-thousandth of the distance
          shown on the plat, whichever is greater.

     8.      Measurements.        The subdivision plat shall contain the following measurements:

          a. The boundary lines with distance and bearing of the exact location and width of
             existing or recorded streets intersecting the boundary.

          b. The arc, length, chord length, chord bearing, radii, and central angles of curves.

          c.    Block     indications,   lot   numbers   and   lot lines   with   dimensions     in feet     and
                hundredths and bearings and angles to street and alley lines.

          d.    The     area   of each   lot in either acres, to the nearest       1/100th     of an acre,     or
                square feet.

          e. All measured bearings or angles and distances separately indicated from those
             of record.

          f.    All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found. A detailed
                description of monuments found and set shall be included and all monuments
                set shall be separately indicated from those found.

                Any additional information shall be typed or printed in narrative form.

     9.   Monuments. The subdivision plat shall contain the location, material, and size of
          all monuments which have been set. A monument shall be set at each of the
          following locations.

          a.    The Initial Point, which must be on the exterior boundary of the plat and must
                be marked with a monument meeting the specifications of ORS 92.060(1).
                The location of the monument shall be with reference by survey to a known
                corner per ORS 92.060.

             b. The exterior boundary including every angle point or curve point along the

pig nila         Divisions                                 3 9 1 as 0 0 { 6
                                                                             Page 21-27

   boundary lines. Any exceptions shall be allowed only with approval of the
   County Surveyor.- Ail monuments for the exterior boundaries of a subdivision
   shall be set and referenced on the plat before the plat is offered for approval.

c. All lot corners, except lot corners of a cemetery. All monuments for the interior
   boundaries of a subdivision shall be set and referenced on the piat before the
   plat is offered for approval, unless the surveyor certifies the remaining
   monuments will be set. If the interior monuments are not set prior to the
   approval of the plat:

   (1) The person performing the survey work shall, by affidavit, certify that the
       interior monuments will be set by a date specified by him, such a date not
       exceeding one year from the date of submission of the plat for approval.
       The County Surveyor may extend the one year period and such extension
       shall be in writing. The County Surveyor shall submit a written copy of the
       extension to the Director.

   (2) The subdivider shall furnish to the Wasco County Surveyor's Office a bond
       or cash deposit, at the option of the Wasco County Surveyor's Office in the
       amount equal to not more than 120 percent of the County Surveyor's
       estimate of the cost to perform the work for the interior monumentation.

   (3) Space will be provided on the face of the plat for endorsement of the
       recording reference to the plat copy to be filed upon completion of such
       interior monumentation.

   (4) Upon completion of the interior monumentation, the person performing the
       survey shall indicate upon a copy of the plat that monumentation has been
       completed.

   (5) The County Surveyor shall check the interior monumentation, and, if the
       conditions required on the tentative plan have been complied with, he shall
        so certify on the plat copy and file it with the County Clerk.

   (6) The County Clerk shall file the plat copy and reference the filing number on
       the original plat. The County Clerk shall advise the County Surveyor of
       such number for notation on the plat previously filed with him.

d. Flood Plain Monumentation for Subdivisions and Partitions. For subdivisions
   and partitions involving land in a flood plain, the following specifications shall
   apply:

   (1) A standard Bench Mark shall be a minimum of thirty-six inches (36") in
       depth and eight inches (8") in diameter, constructed of concrete with a

                                                2 O15 001 0 rere 2ttang Divisions
Page 21-28

                   brass cap set in the center. The brass cap shall bear the name of the
                   Bench Mark, the year set and the agency or Registered Land Surveyor's
                   license number. The Bench Mark shall be set at least thirty inches (30") in
                   the ground in a stable, protected area of the partition or subdivision. The
                   elevation established shall be 3rd order or higher.

                (2) The Bench Mark location shall be indicated on the face of the Piat or Final
                    Survey Map along with its name and elevation and the name, year, and
                    elevation of the Bench Mark upon which the elevation is based.

                (3) The level notes or a copy thereof shall be filed with the final map. Any
                    exceptions shall be allowed only with the approval of the County Surveyor.

                (4) Field notes and closure copies to County Surveyor:

                   (a} Copies of all lot closures, block closures and plat closures of the
                       subdivision shall be furnished to the County Surveyor upon his request.

                    (b)if the interior monuments are not set prior to the approval of the plat, the
                        field notes or legible copies for the original survey of the subdivision
                        shall be furnished to the County Surveyor upon his request.

     10. Surveyor’s Certificate. The plat must include a Surveyor’s Certificate, together with
         the seal and signature of the surveyor of record, to the effect that the surveyor has
         correctly surveyed and marked with proper monument the lands represented,
         including the initial point of the plat and its location, and accurately describing by
         metes or bounds,       or other description as approved     by the County Surveyor, the
         tract of land upon which the parcels are laid out.

     11. Declaration

         a. The plat shall include a declaration, taken before a notary public, stating that
            the declarant has caused the plat to be prepared in accordance with the
            provisions of ORS 92.

         b. Any dedication of land to public purposes or any public or private easements
                created, or any other restrictions made, shall be included in the Declaration.

         c.     If the declarant is not the fee owner of the property, the fee owner and the
                vendor under any instrument of sale shall also execute the Declaration for the
                purpose of consenting to the property being partitioned.

         d.     if the plat contains any dedication or donation of land to public purposes, the
                holder of any mortgage or trust deed shall also execute the Declaration.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                994°0010
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                 Page 21-29

      Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections a. to d., the fee owner, vendor or
      the mortgage or trust deed holder may record an affidavit consenting to the
      declaration, pursuant to ORS 92.075 (4).

12.General Information. The map shall comply with ORS 209.250 and contain the
   following information in addition to the preliminary plan information except that
   21.3 00(B)(1) ~ (8) shall not be required to be on the face of the plat:

      Table indicating the approximate acreages of all existing and newly created
      parcels and lots.

      Assessor Account Number for each existing property.

      Planning Department File Number.

      Legal description of the subdivision boundaries, area of the subdivision in
      acres, and the location of the subdivision by one-fourth section and Donation
      Land Claim, Township and Range.

      Subdivision block and lot boundary lines and street right-of-way and center
      lines with dimensions to the nearest 1/100th of a foot, bearings or deflection
      angles, radii, arcs, points of curvature, chord bearings and distarices, and
      tangent bearings.      Subdivision boundaries, lot boundaries, and street
      bearings shall be shown to the nearest thirty (30) seconds with basis of
      bearings.

      Names and width of the portion of streets being dedicated, the width of any
      existing right-of-way, and the width on each side of the center line. For
      streets on curvature, curve data shall be based on the street center line. In
      addition to the center line dimensions, the radius and central angle shall be
      indicated.

      Easements denoted by fine dotted lines, clearly identified and, if already of
      record, their recorded reference.   If an easement   is not of record, a certified
      copy of the easement shall be provided. The width of the easement, its
      length and bearing, and sufficient ties to locate the easement with respect to
      the subdivision must be shown. if the easement is being dedicated by the
      map, it shall be properly referenced in the owner's declaration.

      Locations and widths of drainage channels, railroad rights-of-way, reserve
      strips at the end of stubbed streets or along the edge of partial width streets
      on the boundary of the subdivision.

                                                                    Chapter Mt   sok   010
                                     2 0 1 - 0 0 1 0
Page 21-30

                 Numbering of blocks and lots, as follows:

                 (1) Block numbers beginning with the number "1" and continuing consecutively
                     without omission or duplication throughout the subdivision. The numbers
                    shall be solid, of sufficient size and thickness to stand out and so placed as
                    not to obliterate any figure or lot numbers. In an addition to a subdivision of
                    the same name, numbers shall be a continuation of the numbering in the
                    original subdivision.

                 (2) Lot numbers beginning with the number "1" and numbered consecutively in
                     each block.

                 Ties to any city, county, or adjacent subdivision boundary lines.

                 The course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing and
                 the distance and course to a section corner, one-sixteenth corner or Donation
                 Land Claim corner in Township and Range.

                 Space for date and signature of the County officials specified in | below.

             . Any conditions specified by the Approving Authority upon granting preliminary
                 approval.                                        ;

                 A copy of the covenants, if any, that will be placed on the subdivision,
                 including the volume and page(s) of recording with Wasco County.

                 A copy of all documents relating to establishment and maintenance of private
                 facilities, common areas and easements, including the volume and page(s) of
                 recording with Wasco County.

                 A copy of all documents relating to additional requirements or restrictions
                 required by the County as a condition of approval.

                 A declaration signed and acknowledged by all parties having any record title
                 interest in the land consenting to the preparation and recording of the plat.

                 A declaration signed and acknowledged by ail parties having any record title
                 interest in the land dedicating all land intended for public use and common
                 improvements, including but not limited to streets, roads, parks, sewage
                 disposal and water supply systems the donation of which was made a
                 condition of the approval of the tentative plan.

                 A narrative per ORS 209.250(2).

                                                             204° 0010
Chapter 21-Land Divisions
XX, KOKXX 2010
                                                                                       Page 21-31

   t.   All subdivisions outside the boundaries of an irrigation district, drainage
        district, water control district, or district improvement company must file a
        statement of water rights. If a water right is appurtenant to the lands of the
        subdivision, the statement of water right and a copy of the subdivision plan
        must be submitted to the Oregon Water Resources Department. A copy of
        the acknowledgment from the Water Resources Department must be
        submitted with the final subdivision plat.

   u. Any additional information made a condition of approval of the tentative plan.

13.Supplemental Information with Final Plat. The following data shall accompany
   the final plat if requested by the Director or County Surveyor:

   a. Apreliminary title report issued by a title insurance company in the name of the
      owner of the land, showing all parties whose consent is necessary and their
      interest in the premises.
   b. Sheets and drawings showing the following:

        (1) Traverse data including the coordinates of the boundary of the subdivision
            and ties to section comers and donation land claim corners, and showing
            the error of closure, if any.

        (2) The computation of all distances, angles, and courses shown on the final
            map.

        (3) Ties to existing monuments, proposed monuments,          adjacent subdivision,
            street corners, and state highway stationing.

   c. Acopy of any dedication requiring separate documents.

   d. A Plan and Profile showing the following:

        (1) Widths of the proposed dedication throughout the length of the proposal.

        (2) Centerline alignment showing P.C. and P.T.          stationing   on    ail curves,
            necessary curve data and bearings of tangents.

        (3) Ground    line and grade line profile on the centerline of the proposed street
           or road.

        (4) Vertical curve data showing P.I. elevations and stations, length of vertical
            curve and tangent grades.                          :

        (5) Proposed drainage structures, showing both size and type of structure.

                                                                        Chapter 21-Lan d Divisions
                                              901°00190                            XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-32

               (6) Earthwork distribution, i.e., volume of cuts and fills shown             in appropriate
                   haul distribution brackets.

               (7) Provisions for waste or borrow areas if widened cuts or fills do not provide
                   the desired balance of material.

               (8) Toe of slope and top of cut lines showing the limits of the construction area
                   within the dedication.

               (9) Typical section of roadbed to be constructed.

               (10)Sections lines, fractional section lines and/or Donation Land Claim lines
                  tied to corner from which dedication description is prepared.

               (11)Vicinity map in the upper left hand corer of the first plan sheet showing
                   roughly the relationships of the proposed road to cities, state highways,
                   county roads, or other well-defined topographical features.

               (12)The stamp and signature of the registered                 Professional    Engineer     or
                  qualified land surveyor preparing the plans.

               Cross Sections
               (1) Shall be platted on standard        10-square inch or CAD        cross-section print-
                   outs.

               (2) Shall show proposed widened cuts or fill if these are needed for material
                   balance.

               If sewer and/or water facilities are required as the condition of approval of the
               Final Plat, the following may be required to be submitted with the Final Plat:

               (1) Plans    and   profiles   of proposed   sanitary,   and   storm-water     sewers,    with
                   grades, pipe sizes and the location of manholes indicated.

               (2) Plans and profiles of the proposed water distribution system showing pipe
                   sizes and the location of valves and fire hydrants.

               (3) Specification for the construction of all proposed sewer and water lines and
                   other utilities.

               (4) Grading plans and specifications as required for areas other than streets
                   and ways.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
XX XXXX 2010
                                                                       9090150010
                                                                                           Page 21-33

             (5) Planting plans and specifications for street trees and other plantings in
                 public areas.

     14.County Surveyor Fees: The subdivider shall pay a subdivision review fee to the
        County Surveyor as provided in O.R.S. 92.100(2) which is included in the cost at
        the time of application. In the event a second field and/or office check becomes
        necessary because of substantial discrepancies found in the first check, the
        County Surveyor may, at his discretion, charge a second fee or partial fee.

GC. Agreement for Improvements

     1.   Before approval of the final subdivision plat, the applicant shall either install the
          improvements required by the preliminary pian approval and repair existing
          streets and other public facilities damaged in the development of the subdivision,
          or shall execute and file with the County Governing Body an agreement between
          himself and the County specifying the period within which required improvements
          and repairs will be completed. The agreement may provide that if work is not
          completed within the period specified, the County may complete the work and
          recover the full cost and expense thereof from the applicant.

     2. An applicant may request an extension of time for completion of required
        improvements. Such request will be considered an application for administrative
        action. Such extension shall be approved only if changed conditions for which
        the applicant is not responsible have made it impossible for him to fulfill the
        agreement within the original time limit(s).

D.   Performance Bond

     1. To assure full performance of the improvement agreement,            an applicant shall
        provide one of the following:

          a. A surety bond executed by a surety company authorized to transact business
             in the State of Oregon on a form approved by the District Attorney; or

          b. cash deposit with the County Tax Collector; or

          c. certification or letter of assurance by a bank or other reputable lending
             institution that money is being held to cover the cost of improvements and
             incidental expenses, and that said money will be released only upon the
            ‘direction of the County Roadmaster.        The bank certification or letter of
             assurance shall be approved by the District Attorney; or

          d. cash deposit with an escrow agent authorized to transact business in the State

                                              2 0 1 ° 0 0 1 0               Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                       XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-34

                of Oregon subject to escrow instructions that require the escrow agent to
                release the money only upon the direction of the County Roadmaster. Escrow
                instructions shall be approved by the District Attorney.

    2.   Such assurance shall be for a sum determined by a qualified licensed engineer
         or in the case         of survey monuments,               a licensed     land surveyor as sufficient to
         cover     the      costs     of included      improvements         and    repairs        or monuments        and
         including related County expenses; and

    3.   Such assurance provides that:                 If the applicant fails to carry out provisions of the
         agreement          or the County        has   unreimbursed         costs or expenses             resulting from
         such      failure,     the     County      shall   call     on    the    bond       or    cash     deposit    for
         reimbursement;             if the amount of the bond or cash deposit exceeds the cost and
         expense incurred by the County, the County shall release the remainder, and if
         the     amount       of the    bond   or cash      deposit       is less than   the cost and          expense
         incurred        by the County,        the applicant         shall be     liable to the County           for the
         difference.

E. Parks, Playgrounds, or Recreational Areas: The Approving Authority may require
   parks, playgrounds, or recreational areas be provided in the final subdivision plan and
   dedicated to the County in locations and of size indicated by the Plan for the area in
    which the subdivision is located.

F. Recreational Fund: Where no parks, playgrounds or recreational areas are required
   by the Commission, the subdivider shall pay to the County a sum equal to six and
   two-thirds percent (6 2/3%) of the assessed value of the land area, exclusive of
   streets, within the subdivision. Such sum shall be paid to the County Clerk prior to
   recording of the final subdivision plan and such sum shall be held by him in a special
   fund for acquisition and development of parks, playgrounds, and recreational areas
   within the immediate area of the subdivision.

G. Development Phasing: If the preliminary subdivision plan approval, pursuant to
   Section 21.300, provided for phasing of development, the applicant may request final
   plat approval for an individual phase of the subdivision by filing with the Director a finai
    plat and supporting documents, as provided in A through D above, for that phase only.

H. Standards for Final Subdivision Plat Approval

    4.   The Planning Commission shall grant final subdivision plat approval if they
         determine that the final plat and supporting documents are in substantial
         conformance with the approved preliminary plan, including any conditions
         imposed by the Approving Authority. Substantial conformance means that any
         differences between the preliminary and final plans are "minor amendments”,                                   as
         defined in 21.110(A)(1).

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                                         901° 9010
XX, AXKX 2010
                                                                                      Page 21-35

     2. The granting of final plat approval shall not be affected by a change in the zone
        or plan map designation of the subject property made after approval of the
        preliminary subdivision plan. -

     3. Approval of a final plat by the Approving Authority shall constitute an acceptance
        by the public of the dedication of any street shown on the plat. Acceptance of a
        street by approval of the final plat shall not constitute an acceptance to maintain
        the street. Acceptance for maintenance of any street by virtue of approval of the
        final plat shall be by a separate process of petitioning the County Governing
        Body for acceptance of road maintenance. Approval of the final plat shall not act
        as an acceptance by the public of any other land for public purposes.

1.   Filing and Recording of Final Plat

     1. After final plat approval, the applicant shall submit without delay the final plat for
        signatures of the following County officials, in the order listed:

        a. Planning Commission Chairman;
        b. County Surveyor;

        c.   County Assessor/Tax Collector;

        d. An authorized representative of the Department of Environmental Quality, State
           of Oregon, or the County Sanitarian;

        e.   County Sheriff;

        f.   County Commissioners;

        g. County Clerk.

     2. The final plat shall be recorded within thirty (30) days of the date that the
        approvals and signatures required by H, Standards and Recording of Final Plat
        and (1) above were obtained.

                                              20
                                              :
                                                 1°0010                   Chapter 7   OOK   2040
Page 21-36

SECTION 21.400              Private Road Approval and Public Road or Street Dedications

Any person desiring to create a public street or private road not part of a subdivision or
land division shall make written application to the Director. Approval of a public or private
road is reviewed by the County Governing Body.          Public or private roads being created as
part of a subdivision or land division shall be reviewed         by the Planning    Commission
subject to the provisions of Chapter 2.

A. Application for Tentative Plan

    1. An application for tentative plan approval for road or street dedication or private
       road approval shall be initiated as provided in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance.

    2. The applicant shall submit to the Director a written application and of a Tentative
       Plan prepared in accordance with B below, Information Required on Tentative
         Plan.

    3. The    Director shall distribute a copy of the Tentative Plan to the              County
         Roadmaster and obtain their recommendation on the proposed action.

B. Information Required on Tentative Plan. Tentative Plans shall include the following
   information presented in the following form:

    1. The Tentative Plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn to an appropriate scale so
       that the Approving Authority may have an adequate understanding of what is
       proposed.

         A vicinity map showing the proposal in relationship to other existing or proposed
         streets.

         Date, north point and scale.

         Name and address of applicant and the person preparing the Tentative Plan.

         Appropriate identification of the drawing as a Tentative Plan.

         Location of the proposed dedication or private road abutting the unit of land
         proposed to be approved by the Section, Township and Range sufficient to
         define its location and, if available, a centerline description or right-of-way
         boundary description.

         Zoning classification and Pian Map designation.

         The names of adjacent subdivisions and the names of recorded owners of
         adjoining lots, parcels or units of land and the amount of frontage each owner
         has on the proposed dedication or on the private road.
Chapter 21-Land Divisions
XX, OX 2010                                                         991°0010
                                                                                             Page 21-87

   9.   Existing roads or street(s) intersecting or meeting the proposed            dedication       or
        private road.

C. Approval of Road or Street Dedication

   1. After considering the recommendation by the County Roadmaster, the Approving
      Authority shall approve the Tentative Plan for road or street dedication and
      recommend to the County Governing Body the dedication of a public road if it
        determines that:

        a. the information required by this section has been provided;

        b. the road or street is or will be improved to meet all applicable standards of
           these regulations; and

        c. dedication of the road or street to the public is consistent with the goals,
           policies and map of the Plan.

   2.   If Tentative Plan to dedicate a road or street is recommended              to the County
        Governing   Body,   and   the street to be.dedicated      has   not been   improved,       the
        Approving Authority shall recommend conditional approval on improvements of
        the road or street to the improvement standards recommended by the County
        Roadmaster.

D. Acceptance of Dedication by the County Court _

   1.   Before the County Governing Body may accept the dedication, the applicant
        must have completed any improvements required as a condition of the approval
        of the dedication or have complied with 21.310(D).

   2.   Prior to acceptance by the County Governing Body, the owner of the land to be
        dedicated shall submit a preliminary title report issued by a title insurance
        company in the name of the owner of the interest in the land.

   3.   Upon acceptance of the dedication by the County Governing Body, the owner of
        the land to be dedicated shall prepare a warranty deed dedicating the land to the
        public.

   4. The County Governing Body shall indicate their approval of the dedication by an
      order accepting the deed and by recording such order with the recording of the
      deed.

   5.   No   road or street will be accepted    for maintenance     as part of the county road
        system unless it meets the standards of subsection (B) and (C) of this Section and
        is ordered accepted by the County Governing Body pursuant to law.

                                               901°0 010                     Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                       XX,   KKK 2010
Page 21-38

E. Approval of a Private Road

    1. The County             Roadmaster shall determine if the    private road    meets the
       improvement             standards and   shall submit his     findings  as    a written
         recommendation to the Approving Authority.

         The Approving Authority shall approve a private road if it finds that the private
         road meets the standards of Section 21.030 and also the improvement
         standards for private roads.

         Upon approval of such private road, the applicant shall submit a boundary line or
         centerline survey of the road, unless the location of the road is already
         established by existing property line surveys recorded with the County Surveyor.
          The boundary line survey shall be submitted to the Director and the Wasco
         County Surveyor.                                                      ;

SECTION 21.410              Improvements

The improvement standards contained in Sections 21.410 through 21.440 shall apply to
all subdivisions, street dedications and private road approvals in Wasco County.

A. Improvement Requirements: The following improvements shall be installed at the
   expense of the subdivider partitioner, or person(s) creating the road:

     1, Roadways in all cases shall conform with the improvement standards set forth
         herein.

         Sidewalks shall be constructed in dedicated pedestrian ways along streets where
         determined necessary by the Approving Authority for pedestrian safety.

         The applicant shall undertake on-site grading and construction or installation of
         drainage facilities necessary for the purpose of proper drainage of the ©
         subdivision partition or properties adjacent to the dedicated road.

         The applicant shall make improvements to existing County or public roads
         determined necessary by the Approving Authority at connections and
         intersections with subdivision streets and at locations where additional
         subdivision lots or partition parcels are created which front on County maintained ~
         roads.

         Road signs shall be required as an improvement in a subdivision or partition.
         Wasco      County shall install and maintain such road or street signs, provided the
         person(s) creating the road pays the expense of the initial improvement.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                         PAD) 4° AQ 10
XX, OOK 2010
                                                                                         Page 21-39

   6. When necessary, and consistent with all applicable standards including those in
      Chapter 14, sidewalks shall be required as part of a new road when a proposed
      development or land division is within an urban growth boundary, or when:

        a. The subject property is located within one-quarter mile of a school, shopping
           center, recreation area, or other use likely to create pedestrian traffic; or

        b. The surrounding area is developed with sidewalks or is zoned for commercial,
           industrial or urban residential uses.

   7.   Sidewalk(s) shall be constructed to applicable standards (see Table 2 Urban
        Wasco County Roadway Design Standards in the Wasco County Transportation
        System   Plan).   Sidewalk   requirements   may   be waived,   or may    be      deferred
        through a road improvement agreement when, in the opinion of the County,
        sidewalks would not be immediately necessary to accommodate pedestrian
        traffic.

   8.   Bicycle facilities shall be required along new roads when necessary to extend an
        existing bicycle route, or when a bicycle route or way is proposed within an
        adopted Transportation System Plan.

B. Improvement Policies and Standards

   The improvement policies and standards contained herein shall apply to development
   conducted under provisions of this Ordinance. They are primarily intended to govem
   the design and construction of streets and roads which are to be accepted into the
   Wasco County maintained road system. These policies and standards also apply to
   other roads, both public and private, as determined appropriate by the Approving
   Authority.

   It shall be the duty of the Wasco County Roadmaster to interpret the provisions and
   requirements of these standards in such a way as to carry out their intent and
   purposes.

SECTION    21.420   Public Streets and Roads

A. General Design Policies: The design of improvements governed by these standards
   shall, in general, conform to policies set forth in the current editions of the following
   publications by the Ametican Association of State Highway and Transportation
   Officials (AASHTO):               ;

   4.   "A Policy on Geometric Design on Highways and Streets”.

   2. “Guidelines for Geometric Design of Very Low-Volume Local Roads (ADT < 400)”

                                             2 0 1 L 0 0 1 0             Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                   XX,    OOK 2070
Page 21-40

B.   Design Criteria

     4.   Improvement of public streets and roads shall conform to the design standards
          designated for the particular classifications indicated in Table 21-1(Rural Public
          Roadway Design Standards) & 21-2 (Urban Public Roadway Design Standards)
          of this Chapter

     2.   Roadway sections shall conform to the sections designated                      for the particular
          road classifications.

     3. The design of structural sections of all roadways                   required by this Ordinance,
          including    arterials,   collectors,   local   access   roads   and   principal   highways     shall
          conform with the General Design Policies in A above and the standard
          specifications which are applicable to construction of improvements in E(2) .
          below, Construction. Any deviation from these standards shall be approved by
          the County Roadmaster.

     4. The design standards listed and referenced in this section may only be varied only
        through a request to the Wasco County Public Works Director by a Professional
        civil engineer.

C. Standard Drawings

     4. The County Roadmaster shall have the authority to publish "Standard Drawings"
        for the design of public streets and roads. These drawings may be included in
        the separately adopted document listed in B(1) above.

     2. The applicant's design shall conform to the "Standard Drawings”.

D. General Considerations

     1.   The    County     Roadmaster      may     impose    additional   design    requirements       as are
          reasonably necessary to provide safe and adequate access.

     2.   There shall be provided a cul-de-sac at the end of each street or road that ends
          within the confines of a proposed subdivision or partition. Any proposed street or
          road that terminates at a proposed subdivision or development boundary will be
          provided with a temporary cul-de-sac or turnaround which may be discontinued
          at such time as the road or street is extended.

     3. Any road or street which does not connect directly to a County maintained road,
          city maintained street or state highway shall not be accepted for maintenance by
          the County. No other road or street shall be accepted for maintenance as a part of
          the County road system unless it is ordered accepted by the County Governing
          Body pursuant to law.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                                   9n1°       001 0
XX, XIOCK 2010
                                                                                              Page 21-41

E.   Development Requirements

     1.   Engineering:

          a.   Plans -    Construction plans may be required for improvements governed                by
               these standards.    Such construction plans shail be prepared under the direction
               of a consultant engineer registered in the State of Oregon, and shall be
               submitted for approval to the County Roadmaster and shall include the
               following information:

               (1) Widths of all proposed road right-of-way dedication.

               (2) Centerline alignment showing P.C. and P.T.          stationing   on   all curves,
                   necessary curve data and bearing of tangents.

               (3) Original ground line and grade line profile on the centerline of the proposed
                   road.

               (4) Vertical curve data showing P.I. elevations and stations, length of vertical
                   curve and tangent grades.

               (5) Proposed drainage structures, showing both size and type of structure.

               (6) Toe of fill and top of cut lines.

               (7) Typical structural section of roads to be constructed.

               (8) Section lines, fractional section lines and/or Donation Land Claim lines.
                   Also, bearing and distance from which the centerline description is
                   prepared, and basis of bearings.

               (9) A vicinity map in the upper left hand corner of the first plan sheet showing
                   the relationships of the proposed road to cities, state highways, county
                   roads, or other well-defined topographical features.

               (10)Proposed utilities, showing location and type. Also, a written statement that
                  locations have been approved by affected utility companies. A composite
                  map shall be furnished by the consultant engineer to all affected utilities.

               (11)The plans shall contain a standard symbol sheet approved by the County
                   Roadmaster.

               (12)The stamp and signature of a consultant engineer preparing the plans.

               (13)The location and dimensions of the pedestrian circulation system.
                                                                               Chapter 21-Land Divisions

                                                              0010                       XX, XXX 2010
                                                       991°
Page 21-42

                (14)The location and dimensions of bicycle parking, when required.

         b. Cost      Estimates   - The   consultant engineer shal! submit,      with his proposed
                construction plans, a construction cost estimate.    This estimate shall include all
                related road-work and affected utility installation and/or relocation.

         c.     Monumentation - All horizontal curve points shall be referenced with a 5/8" x
                30" steel rod set perpendicular to the tangents at the right-of-way line and
                witnessed by a white 4” x 4” x 4' cedar post or a four foot section of steel fence
                post painted white. In the case of a curbed street, the witness posts may be
                omitted.

    2.   Construction:

         a.     Standard Specifications - The Standard Specifications which are applicable to
                the construction of improvements governed by these standards are the
                following (except as they may be modified, supplemented or superseded by
                Wasco County):

                (1) "Oregon Standard Specifications.  for Construction”, most recent edition,
                    published by the Oregon Department of Transportation, and the American
                    Public Works Association, Oregon Chapter.

                (2) “Oregon Standard Specifications for Construction”, most recent edition,
                    published by the Oregon Chapter of the American Public Works Association
                    (APWA) and the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT).

                   References to “Oregon Transportation Commission” shall be construed to
                   mean Wasco County and the Wasco County Governing Body, respectively.
                    "Engineer’ and “Director’ shall be construed to mean the County
                   Roadmaster, or his properly authorized agent(s) acting within the scope of
                   his/her particular duties.

         b.     Permits - A permit to occupy and perform operations shail be obtained from
                the County   Roadmaster    prior to commencing     construction within the
                right-of-way of any County maintained road.

         c.     Bond Requirements - Before the dedication or deed to the public for street or
                road right-of-way is accepted by the County Governing Body, the applicant
                shall provide a performance bond or other security, as set forth in 21.310(D).

         d.     Inspection Schedule - After financial assurance is received by the County, the
                applicant shail arrange for periodic inspection by his consultant engineer. At a
                minimum, such inspection shall occur at the following stages of construction:

Chapter 24-Land Divisions                                                    901 2901 0
XX, XXXX 2010
                                                                                 Page 21-43

  (1) After clearing and grubbing is completed.

  (2) After grading and drainage is completed.

  (3) After rock surface is completed.

  (4) After paving is completed.

. Certification and Warranty Requirements -

  (1) When the project is completed, the consultant engineer shall certify to the
      County, in writing, that the project has been constructed in substantial
      conformance with the plans and specifications.        The certification shall
      include a copy of the results of all conformance tests performed in
      conjunction with the design and construction of the project.

  (2) Upon receiving said certification, the County will accept the project for
      normal and routine maintenance, provided the applicant posts a warranty
      bond equal to twenty percent (20%) of the performance bond required in (c)
      above for the correction of any deficiencies that may arise within a period of
      one (1) year.

  (3) Upon receiving the warranty bond for the correction of deficiencies and
      upon certification by the County Roadmaster that the provisions of the
     improvement agreement are complete, the performance bond required by
     (c) above shall be released to the applicant.

  (4) The County Roadmaster shall inspect the project at the end of one (1) year
      and list the deficiencies to be corrected and shail notify the applicant of
      such deficiencies.    In the event no deficiencies are found, the warranty
      bond will be released to the applicant at that time.

  (5) Upon notification of the deficiencies, the applicant shall commence
      corrective work within thirty (30) days and shall complete such work at the
      earliest possible date. Upon satisfactory completion, the warranty bond
      shall be released to the applicant.

  (6) In the event the. applicant fails to commence corrective work within thirty
      (30) days of notification of deficiencies, the County shall cause the
      corrective work to be accomplished and call on the warranty bond for
      reimbursement.    If the amount of the warranty bond exceeds cost and
      expenses incurred by the County, the County shall release the remainder;
      and if the amount of the warranty bond is less than the cost and expenses
      incurred by the County, the applicant shall be liable to the County for the
      difference.

                                         901° 0019               Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                           2G,     XK 2010
Page 21-44

         f.     As-Constructed         Plans   -   The   County   Roadmaster,   at the completion   of the
                project, may require the consultant engineer to furnish permanent reproducible
                plans of the work or an “as-constructed" modification of the original permanent
                reproducible plans previously submitted, as may be required under (1)(a)
                above,      Plans.                                                       .

                (1) The title sheet shall contain the consultant engineer's -signed P.E.
                    (Professional Engineer) stamp and a certification signed by the engineer
                    "that the project has been constructed in substantial conformance with the
                    plans and specifications".

                (2) The title sheet shall contain in the title block the name of the street or road;
                   the name          of the subdivision;   the names    of the applicant and   consultant
                   engineer preparing the plan; the location of the street or road according to
                   Section, Township and Range; a typical section showing surfacing,
                   thickness and types, side slopes and cut and fill slopes; and, a vicinity map
                   of approximately 1"= 1 mile showing where the street or road is located in
                   relation to Sections, Townships and Ranges and surrounding topographical
                   features and its connections to existing County or State highways.

                (3) The plans shall show the centerline alignment and all curve data, and
                    direction of tangents, the location and monumentation of the street or road,
                    right-of-way widths, drainage easements, section lines, lot lines of the
                    subdivision, and all drainage structures, their sizes, lengths and locations,
                    and underground utilities, their types, sizes and locations.

                (4) The plans shali show the original ground line and the finish grade on the
                    centerline, all P.l. (Point of Interest) elevations and stations, elevations of
                    vertical curves and tangent grades.

                (5) The plans shall have a          title block in the lower right hand corner giving the
                   name of the street or road, the subdivision, the name of the consultant
                   engineer preparing the plans and the name of the applicant.

                (6) The consultant engineer will provide accurate “as-constructed” plans to aill
                    affected utility companies.

         g. Signing - Permanent traffic control and street or road identification signs will be
            required for all subdivisions.

                (1) The applicant shall deposit {in cash) with the County               Roadmaster,     an
                   amount determined by the Roadmaster adequate for the construction and
                   installation of permanent signing required. Upon receiving said cash
                   deposit, the County will prepare, place and maintain required permanent
                   signing.

Chapter 24-Land Divisions                                                90 1°00 10
XX, XXKX 2010
                                                                                           Page 21-45

           (2) Temporary construction signing will be required on all streets and roads
               under construction which are being used by the public.          Temporary
               construction signing shall be in conformance with the "Manual   on  Uniform
               Traffic Control Devices", as published by the Department of Transportation,
               Federal Highway Administration, and supplemented by State of Oregon
               "Standard   Practice   and   Interpretations", and   shall be furnished,   installed,
               maintained and removed at the expense of the applicant.

SECTION 21.430       Private Roads

A. General Design Policies:     Private roads shall conform to the requirements outlined in
   Table 3 of this Chapter.

B. Design Criteria

   Private roads shall conform to the requirements outlined in the Wasco County Road
   Standards document indicated in 21.420(B)(1) as well as the criteria below:

   The design standards listed and referenced in this section may only be varied only
   through a request to the Wasco County Public Works Director by a registered
   Professional civil engineer.

   1.   Finished top surface width of roads shali be a minimum of twelve (12) feet.

   2. The roadbed shall have an all-weather surface of suitable material, in good
      repair and of sufficient depth to ensure a solid roadbed, but in no case less than
        four (4) inches of crushed rock.

        Turnouts shall be provided no further than six hundred (600) feet apart and not
        less than fifty (50) feet in length and eight (8) feet in width excluding taper,
        unless further restricted by fires safety standards.

        The County Roadmaster may require paving for road profile grades exceeding
        fifteen percent (15%), and in no case shall a grade exceed twenty percent (20%).

        Cross culverts of adequate size (minimum eighteen inches in diameter) shall be
        provided to carry storm run-off under the roadway.

        All cut and fill slopes shall be 1.5:1 or flatter; unless steeper slopes are
        determined feasible by a consultant engineer. A fallout area may be necessary
        for any slope steeper than 1.5:1.

        Adequate roadside ditches shall be provided to carry storm run-off. Roadside
        ditches in excess of seven percent (7%) grade and in erodible soils shall be lined
        with suitable material to prevent erosion.

                                                       204°0010               mer Land outs
Page 21-46

Cc. General Considerations

    1. The Approving Authority, upon recommendation of the County Roadmaster, may
       impose additional requirements as are reasonably necessary to provide a safe and
          adequate access.

    2.    Private roads shall be maintained by the benefited property owners and shall not
          be accepted by the County for maintenance.

D. Certification and Special Considerations

     4.   The County Roadmaster may require the applicant to retain a consultant engineer.
          to inspect his private road project. When    the project is completed, that engineer
          shall certify to the County, in writing, that the project has been constructed       in
          substantial conformance to the County's current improvement standards.

    2.    In the event an existing road is to be used for access to a land division, it shall be
          inspected by a consultant engineer retained by the applicant and, if found
          adequate for the intent and purposes of the private road requirements, shall be
          approved.

E. Signing:    Permanent traffic control and street or road identification signs will be
   required at the intersections of private roads with County maintained roads.

     1. The applicant shall deposit (in cash) with the County Roadmaster, an amount
        determined by the Director adequate to cover the costs of construction and
        installation of required permanent signing required. Upon receiving said cash
        deposit, the County will prepare, place and maintain required permanent signing.

    2.    Temporary construction signing will be required on all streets and roads under
          construction which are being used by the public. Temporary construction signing
          shall be in conformance with the "Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices", as
          published by the Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration,
          and supplemented by State of Oregon "Standard Practice and Interpretations”,
          and shall be furnished, installed, maintained and removed at the expense of the
          applicant.

SECTION 21.440              Roadway Improvement Standards

A. Roadway Requirements: No development shall occur unless the roadways adjacent
   to the development meet the standards of this section, unless the following applies:

    1. A development may be approved if the adjacent roadway does not meet the
       standards but half-street improvements meeting the standards of this title are
Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                              ante      0010
XK, XKX 2010
                                                                                            Page 21-47

        constructed adjacent to the development.

   2.   Roadways under the jurisdiction of the Oregon          Department        of Transportation
        shall be improved to state standards.                                                   ;

B. Minimum Right-of-Way Width - The width of street right-of-way provided in Table 1
   shall be the minimum widths of rights-of-way for streets existing along and adjacent
   to any boundary of the subdivision or partition which is the natural or planned
   continuation of the alignment of the existing or proposed streets. Unless otherwise
   indicated on the official roadway map, the width of all rights-of-way and roadway
   improvements shail be in compliance with the following:

   41. Arterials: A minimum right-of-way width of sixty (60) feet.

   2.   Collectors: A minimum right-of-way width of sixty (60) feet.

   3.   Local Roads:   A minimum right-of-way width of fifty (50) feet.

C. Partial street_improvements - Partial street improvements resulting in a pavement
   width of less than 16 feet; while generally not acceptable, may be approved where
   essential to reasonable development when in conformity with the other requirements
   of these regulations, and when it will be practical to require the improvement of the
   other half when the adjoining property developed.

D. Improvements Guarantee in Lieu_of Improvements - If the County could and would
   otherwise require the applicant to provide street improvements, the County
   Roadmaster may accept a future improvements guarantee in lieu of street
   improvements if one or more of the following conditions exist:

   4.   A partial improvement     is not feasible due to the inability to achieve            proper
        design standards;

   2.   A partial improvement     may   create   a potential   safety   hazard     to motorists     or
        pedestrians;

   3.   Due to the nature of existing development on adjacent properties it is unlikely
        that street improvements would be extended in the foreseeable future and the
        improvement associated with the project under review does not, by itself,
        provide a significant improvement to street safety or capacity;

   4.   The improvement would be in conflict with an adopted capital improvement plan;

   5. The improvement is associated with an approved land partition on property
      zoned residential and the proposed land partition does not create any new
        streets; or

                                                 2 1) 1 ° 0 0 1 0            Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                        OX, XXXXK 2010
Page 21-48

     6.      Additional planning work is required to define the appropriate design standards
             for the street and the application is for a project which would contribute only a
             minor portion of the anticipated future traffic on the street.

E. Off-site Improvements - Off-site improvements, such as pavement construction or
   re-construction of existing street(s) proposed for access to the subdivision or
   partition, which are inadequate or in failing condition, may be required. Off-site
   transportation improvements will include bicycle and pedestrian improvements, as
   identified in the adopted Wasco County Transportation System Plan.

SECTION 21.450 Access Control
A. Purpose. The following access control standards apply to industrial, commercial
   and residential developments including land divisions. Access shall be managed to
   maintain an adequate level of service and to maintain the functional classification of
   roadways as required by the Wasco County Transportation System Plan. Major
   roadways, including arterials and collectors, serve as the primary system for moving
    people and goods within and through the county.                      Access management is a primary
    concem on these roads.      if vehicular access and circulation are not properly
    designed, these roadways will be unable to accommodate the needs of
    development and serve their transportation function. The regulations in this section
    further the orderly fayout and use of land, protect community character, and
    conserve       natural resources          by promoting well-designed        road and     access     systems
    and discouraging the unplanned subdivision or partitioning of land.

B. Access Control Standards.

    4. Traffic Impact Analysis Requirements.                   The County or other agency with access
          jurisdiction      may    require    a traffic study prepared      by a qualified    professional to
          determine access, circulation and other transportation requirements.                        (See also,
          Section 4.180 Traffic Impact Analysis.)

    2. The County or other agency with access permit jurisdiction may require the
       closing or consolidation of existing curb cuts or other vehicle access points,
       recording of reciprocal access easements (i.e., for shared driveways),
       development of a frontage street, installation of traffic control devices, and/or
          other mitigation as a condition of granting an access permit, to ensure the safe
          and efficient operation of the street and highway system. Access to and from
          off-street parking areas shall not permit backing onto a public street.

    3. Access Options.              When vehicle access is required for development (i-e., for off-
          street parking,         delivery,   service,   drive-through    facilities, etc.), access     shall   be
          provided by one of the following methods                  (a minimum      of 10 feet per lane is
          required).

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                                   9n1°0 010
XX, XOXO 2010
                                                                                                      Page 21-49

     a.   Option 1. Access to the lower order roadway.

     b. Option 2. Access is from a private street or driveway connected to an
        adjoining property that has direct access to a public street (i.e., “shared
        driveway”).   A public access easement covering the driveway shall be
          recorded in this case to assure access to the closest public street for all users
          of the private street/drive.

     c.   Option 3. Access is from a public street adjacent to the development parcel.
          If practicable, the owner/developer may be required to close or consolidate
          an existing access point as a condition of approving a new access. Street
          accesses shall comply with the access spacing standards in Subsection e.,
          below.

4.   Subdivisions and Partitions Fronting Onto an Arterial Street. New residential
     land divisions fronting onto an arterial street shall be required to provide
     secondary (local or collector) streets for access to individual lots.

5.   Access Spacing. Minimum           access spacing standards apply to newly established
     public street intersections, private drives, and non-traversable medians.

     a.   Standards are found in Table 7.2, Rural Wasco County Roadway Design
          Standards and Table 7-3 Urban Wasco County Roadway Design Standards,
          in the Wasco County Transportation System Plan.

     b. Access to State        Highways       and    Interchanges.       Access   to a transportation
          facility under   the jurisdiction     of the   Oregon      Department     of Transportation
          (ODOT) shall be subject to the applicable standards and policies contained in
          the Oregon Highway Plan and the requirements of OAR 734-051.

6.   Number of Access Points. For single-family housing types, one street access
     point is permitted per lot, when secondary (local or collector) street access
     cannot otherwise be provided.     The number of street access points for
     commercial,     industrial, and     public/institutional developments         shall be minimized
     to protect the function, safety and operation of the street(s) and sidewalk(s) for
     all users. Shared access may be required, in conformance with Subsection (g)
     below, in order to maintain the required access spacing, and minimize the
     number of access points.

7.   Shared     Driveways.     The     number       of driveway    and    the   frequency      with     which
     private streets intersect with public streets shali be minimized by the use of
     shared driveways with adjoining lots where feasible. The County shall require
     shared driveways as a condition of land division or site design review, as
     applicable, for traffic safety and access management purposes in accordance
     with the following standards:

                                                           2 0    1 S 0 0 1 0      Chapter 7          OX    2010
Page 21-50

         a. Shared driveways and frontage streets may be required to consolidate
            access onto a coliector or arterial street. When shared driveways or frontage
            streets are required, they shall be stubbed to adjacent developable parcels to
                  indicate future extension.       “Stub” means that a driveway or street temporarily
                  ends at the property line, but may be extended in the future as the adjacent
                  parcel develops.    “Developable” means that a parcel is either vacant or it is
                  likely to receive additional development (i.e., due to infill or redevelopment
                  potential).

             b.   Access easements {i.e., for the benefit of affected properties) shall be
                  recorded for all shared driveways, including pathways, at the time of final
                  plat approval or as a condition of site development approval.

             c.    Exception.    Shared driveways are not required when existing development
                   patterns or physical constraints (e.g., topography,           parcel configuration, and
                  similar conditions) prevent extending the street/driveway in the future.

C. Notwithstanding Section 21.450, upon the recommendation of the County
   Roadmaster the County. may reduce access spacing standards if the following
   conditions are met:

     1. Joint access (shared) driveways and cross access easements are provided in
        accordance with the standards;

         The site plan incorporates an                integrated     access    and    circulation   system    in
         accordance with the standards;

         The       property owner enters into a written agreement               with the County       that pre-
         existing connections on the site will be closed and eliminated after construction
         of each side of the shared driveway;

         The proposed           access   plan for redevelopment properties moves               in the direction
         of the spacing standards; and

         The reduced            access   spacing     is consistent    with    all applicable    provisions    of
         Chapter 14.

D. The County Roadmaster may modify or waive the access spacing standards for
   roadways under County jurisdiction where the physical site characteristics or layout
   of abutting properties would make a development of a unified or shared access and
   circulation system impractical and would make meeting the access standards
   infeasible, subject to the following:

     1. The application of the location of access standard will result in the degradation of
        operational and safety integrity of the transportation system.

pag souioireis Divisions                                                20     1°    0 0 1 0
                                                                                                         Page 21-51

   2. The granting of the modification or waiver shall meet the purpose and intent of
      these standards and shall not be considered until every feasible option for
      meeting access standards is explored.

   3. Applicants for modification or waivers from these standards must provide proof
        of unique or special conditions that make strict application                       of the standards
        impractical. Applicants shall include proof that:

        a.   Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained;

        b. No     engineering    or construction     solutions      can   be    applied       to mitigate      the
             condition;

        c.   No   alternative   access   is   available    from   a    road    with   a     lower     functional
             classification than the primary roadway;

        d.   The hardship is not self-created; and

        e. The modification or waiver is necessary to protect scenic, natural, cultural or
           recreation resources in Chapter 14 or is at a minimum consistent with the
           standards to project them.

E. Street/roadway Connectivity and Formation of Blocks Required. In orderto promote
   efficient vehicular and pedestrian circulation throughout the county, land divisions
   and large site developments shall produce compiete blocks bounded by a
   connecting network of public and/or private roads, in accordance: with AASHTO
   design standards.      For residential and commercial developments, the maximum
   block length shall not exceed. 600 feet, with the maximum perimeter not to exceed
   1,400 feet.

SECTION 21.460        Pedestrian Access and Circulation

A. Site Layout and Design - To ensure safe, direct, and convenient pedestrian
   circulation, all developments shall provide a continuous pedestrian system. The
   pedestrian system shall be based on the standards in subsections 1-4, below:

   4.   Continuous Walkway System - The pedestrian walkway system shall extend
        throughout the development site and connect to all future phases of
        development, and to existing or planned off-site adjacent trails, public parks, and
        open space areas to the greatest extent practicable. The developer may also be
        required to connect or stub walkway(s) to adjacent streets or roads and to private
        property with a previously reserved public access easement for this purpose, in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 21.030.E (Relation to Adjoining Street
        System).

                                                          2 0 1 .     0 0 1 0             Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                                    XX, XAXK 2010
Page 21-52

    2. Safe, Direct, and Convenient - Walkways within developments shall provide safe,
       reasonably direct, and convenient connections between primary building
       entrances and all adjacent streets/roadways, based on the following definitions:

         a.   Reasonably direct - A route that does not deviate unnecessarily from a
              straight line or a route that does not involve a significant amount of out-of-
              direction travel for likely users.

         b. Safe and convenient - Routes that are reasonably free from hazards and
            provide a reasonably direct route of travel between destinations.

         c.   "Primary      entrance"   for commercial,   mixed   use,   and   office buildings   is the
              main public entrance to the building. In the case where no public entrance
              exists, street/roadway connections shall be provided to the main employee
              entrance.

         d. "Primary entrance" for residential buildings is the front door (i.e., facing the
              street or road). For multifamily buildings in which each unit does not have its
              own exterior entrance, the “primary entrance” may be a lobby, courtyard, or
              breezeway which serves as a common entrance for more than one dwelling.

    3.   Connections Within Development - Connections within developments shall be
         provided as required in subsections a-c, below:

         a. Walkways shall connect all building entrances to one another to the extent
            practicable, as generally shown in Figure 21-1;

         a. Walkways shall connect all on-site parking areas, storage areas, recreational
            facilities and common areas, and shall connect off-site adjacent uses to the
            site to the extent practicable. Topographic or existing development
            constraints may be cause for not making certain walkway connections; and

         c.   Large parking areas shall be broken up so that no contiguous parking area
              exceeds three (3) acres or the space required for the maximum number of
              cars allowed by the applicable provisions of this ordinance. Parking areas
              may be broken up with plazas, large landscape areas with pedestrian access
              ways (i.e., at least 20 feet total width), streets/roadways, or driveways with
              street-like features, Street-like features, for the purpose of this section,
              means a raised sidewalk of at least 4-feet in width, 6-inch curb, accessible
              curb ramps, street trees in planter strips or tree wells, and pedestrian-
              oriented lighting. The parking areas shall be designed consistent with all
              applicable provisions of this ordinance including but not limited to Section
              14.200 (Key Viewing Areas), 14.600(Natural Resources) and 14.700
              (Recreation Resources).

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                  gn1ennin
                                                                  “
XX, XXX 2010
Figure 21-1 — Pedestrian Pathway System (Typical)

                                          9n4°0010   Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                XX, 900K 2010
Page 21-54

B. Walkway Design and Construction - Walkways, including those provided with
   pedestrian access ways, shall conform to all of the standards in subsections 1-4, as
   generally illustrated in Figure 21-2:

     1. Vehicle/Walkway         Separation.
        Except         for       crosswalks
        (subsection 2), where a walkway
        abuts a driveway or street, it shall
        be raised 6 inches and curbed
        along     the      edge    of _ the
        driveway/street. Alternatively, the                                            AA                                                 %

                                                                                       mie

                                                                                                                                  ee
        Approving Authority may approve                           .
                                                                                       a!                                            |

                                                                                    —

                                                                                                                                  a.
         a walkway abutting a driveway at
         the same grade as the driveway
         if the walkway is protected from                                                                                                ADA Remap
         all vehicle maneuvering areas.                                                                                                  pedestr       ;
         An example of such protection is                                        idan break up                              =a                       ae
         a      row    of    decorative      metal     or                                 wns
         concrete bollards designed for                                                                                     F
         withstand a vehicle’s impact, with                 ana

                                                                                                                                rare
         adequate      minimum _ spacing.
         between      them     to    protect
         pedestrians.                                             a                                           :                  ra
                                                                                   . q4
                                                                                          “i
                                                                      q]

                                                                                                                                         wn?
                                                                      oy     ,                                    q
                                                                                               tal

                                                                                                                      Pag
                                                                                                     “O%

    2. Crosswalks               - Where   walkways                    aoe                 a.               eee:                          fos.
         cross a parking area, driveway,
         or street (“crosswalk”), they shall                 Primary Building Entry
         be           clearly       marked           with
         contrasting             paving      materials                     Figure 21-2 ~ Pedestrian Walkway
         (eg...  light-color  concrete   inlay Detail (Typical)
         between asphalt), which may be part
         of a raised/hump      crossing area.
         Painted or thermo-plastic striping and similar types                                                                   of       non-permanent
         applications may be approved for crosswalks not exceeding 24 feet in length.

    3. Walkway              Width   and   Surface       - Walkway                and           accessway                         surfaces            shall   be
         concrete, asphalt,           brick/masonry pavers, or other durable surface, as approved
         by the Public Works Director, at least six (6) feet wide.                                                Multi-use paths (i.e., for
         bicycles and pedestrians) shall be concrete or asphalt, at least 10 feet wide.

    4. Accessible Routes - Walkways shall comply with applicable Americans with
       Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. The ends of all raised walkways, where the
       walkway intersects a driveway or street shall provide ramps that are ADA
       accessible, and walkways shall provide direct routes to primary building
         entrances.

Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                                              991°9010
HX, KKXK 2010
                                                                                     Page 21-55

SECTION 21.470     Penalty and Enforcement on Violation

A. Violation of any provision of this Ordinance is punishable upon conviction under the
   provisions of O.R.S. 92.990(1).

B. In addition to the criminal penalties provided for by subsection (1) of this Section,
   Wasco County may seek equitable relief for violations of this Chapter.

SECTION 21.480     Repeal and Transferral Provisions

A.   The Wasco County Subdivision and Land Development Ordinance                     adopted
     February 3, 1982, is repealed upon the effective date of this Ordinance.

B. Actions approved under the provisions or regulations repealed by subsection (A) of
   this Section shall continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of such
   approval.

C. Violations of the provisions or regulations repealed by subsection (A) of this Section
   shall be deemed violations of this Chapter.

                                                gnqr neds              Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                                  XX, XO 2010
                                                                                                       seeulBuR Aunes ay; fq peaoidde Joppu
                                                                                                                                            e Apnys ayes, 8 Aq payoddns ueYM pemo
                                                                                                                                                                                  ye aq As Buloeds semi OT.
                                                                                                                                                                         “SOUEPING JO} |enuew CO .LHSVY aag ,
                                                                                                                                                                        SNouleJUNSW=W ‘BUNOY=4 ‘}oAe7 =7
                    00s                                        oe                                     ost                                   001                                        001                                             GL                      exvoay faun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           as
     09         09             09         og           og                 09       09            09               09         os         os                  os              os              os              os             os          os           os                   Q)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ‘PIM MOM wUUTUyy
      @         r4              tA        tA               rA             Zz       Zz             Zz               z         z              z                   z               z               @               z
     Or                                                                                                                                                                                                                    z           Zz           rA        Sout] Jo JeqQuINN
                ov             or         ge           ee             Be
     ee                                                                            oe            of               of
                ze             ce         o€           OE                 oe       az         92                  ez     oe.           9                                                                                                                  (y) (eanow oxie j ong
                                                                                                                                                            9           zz              od              cd                8)           a        oh        WON) InP ABMpeoy
     z              z           z         @                @              z            @          z               @          é          z                   z                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .              .           .            .                  (opie yore)
                                                                                                                                                                                            .
     9          9               9         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         “ARIA Japinoyg jeazicy
                                                           g              g        cA             @               @          -          -                   -                -              -               -                          .
 [4             z               z         b                                                                                                                                                                                                         .          Gy) eynoy oxtg -
                                                           L              L            L          1               t          -          -                   -               -               -               -              :           -            -        enoy eng UON -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (opie yee)
 ve                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ‘BRIM Jepinoug pearg
            174            RA         ve           be                 ve        2            [<A              ce        ez         tad                  2               (aA            a            tid               el           el       et                   emg     oes
 z              z         seven       z                z            see'}.         z          z             OLb'L‘       z          z              060'‘                 :              -               -              -           -            -                  (y) sours
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N6ig  Bujeeeg
ose       oLg             009        Sez          Ose                Sv        SEL          02              Ove        SEL        Sez               0%                 Sey            sez           oe               Se)          SEZ       ze
 g          v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  woe Budo
                            £        OL            g                  9        a             6                Z         Zz         OL                   Z              eh             OL            Z                 eb          OL        Z
or         o¢              09        og                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (%) apeag xewy
                                                  Ov                 og        0z           oe               Ov         02         oe               0€                 02             o¢            oe                02          oe
Ww         Yq              1         Ww                                                                                                                                                                                                     oe            (udu) poeds ubjseg
                                                  qY                  1        W             YW               1        WwW         Yd                   1              Ww              Yd           1                Ww           P]
          000'2<                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7                           HeLa,
                                               000'2 — 00F                                 00%-0¢z                                0Sz-Sz                                            Os2-se
          Pereg                                   Posey                                                                                                                                                                           Sa                              Lavy ubiseg
                                                                                            Poaaeg                                PeAeg
          Teuapy                     40799]/09 Jofew feng                                                                                                                           peardun                                     peaedun
                                                                               40}93/109 JOUIW jean
          fea                                                                                                                                                         SPROY |2907] jeImy
                                                                                                                  SPJEPUue}sS      u            1S39q               BMpeoy                                                                          ~~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    eee
                                                                                                                                                                                      sqnd                          AWUnOy OOSBAA               Jel Ne — bbe age
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9S-1z eBeq
OLOZ XXXX ‘XX
SUOISIAIG PUET-LZ Je3deuD
                                                                                                      OOUL         bus
                                                                                                                                                    “SpJEPUESS QJa/dWOD 10} OZ LZ UOHOeS eas,
                              . ‘payeje eounosel
       sl asn Arewud ay} pue azis ul sosoe                                                                                                                                      (SO ud ‘SY ‘E-4 ‘L-4
         (01) ue} UeY} ssa] aue syo} (¢) aesu)                         “SOBLINS |BABI, | YOO1 B8eq Jo (,7) S@YoU! INO}                                                         ‘Ev ‘L-v) Aug seu0z
      uey} aso! OU yeu} paplAaid (94) Ua,                     JO O24 Z) UM JO0I OF,         jo WNWiurW UM sAcIdUy,               SUOUMOQ Ayadold             PBOY SICAL              Jequepisey-uoN
                                    ajqeqosdui SI
     puke] Jo sjlun Jo sjaoued $}9] jeuONIppe                                                                                                                peoy
           0} aolas al} papiaqud (¢) eazy)                                    1984 0¢                 spiepueys Ajejes ag   |    sJeUMO Auadolg | juawasey syeaug                           S@U0Z [ly
                                             ED6)             pauinbay juawasey ON                    spiepuels Ajayes su        SISUMQ Aadoid                  Kemoanug                    SaUdZ [IV
              PUE JO SHUN JO                                       yueweseg                      Spuepueys                      SOUBLIS}UIEW 10}
    s[adueg ‘s]07] jo JAQUINN WNnuxeyy                        JO LIDIAA WUNLUTUTI           SJUSWeAOIdUN] LUNI                         tsuodsey            uoneubiseg           $9U0Z Ut UON}e907]
                                                                                                                                              Splepueys sseooy Sead — E-1Z S1qeL
                                                               uonoipsun! }e90] ay} Aq peaosdde Joypue Apnys oyyen e Aq payioddns uaym pemolje aq Aew Bulseds semo7,
                                                                                                                                     ‘ayeudoidde paweep wey peziyn
    eq Aewi spiepuejs uBIsap Aempeor [e90] ‘JaxeMoH “(seqlUNWWWOD payesoduooul) seaze UequN Ul sAempeo: AUNOD ||2 0} Ajdde Sprepuejs uBisep Aempeol uequn ay) :8}ON
                009-006                               o0€-0S                                  00€-0S1                                    0s                             (y) Burpeds ssea0y pauiejoid,
                   9                                      9                                       -                                       -                                       GY) PIM oueT aE
             (epis yore) ¢                          (@pis yore) ¢                           (@p1s yoBe) ¢                          (apis yea) ¢                                    G) aPHAA MIeMepIS
       levaydo ‘{epis yore) g                       (apis yore) g                           (@pis yoee) g                           pedis JON                                   {y) Gupyeg yeN¢g-UD
                99 Jo 0g                                 es                                      Ov                                      ge                                   (y) urpian Atay payers,
       rey                 hom “i              soue] ne Zh                                soue] eres iL Zh                        sour] iene iL 2b                        SOUR] JO INDIA pue 20QUINN
                   06                                  92-€9                                     9                                       8¢                                  (y) WIPIM MOM wnWwiuTw
                  %O                                    %OL                                     %OL                                     ZL                                                 Spelp XeW
                 ge-se                                 Ge-Gz                                   oe-sz                                     4                                       (udu) peedg uBiseq
                000'9<                              000'9-000'e                             000°€-000'L                               000'L>                                              Lav uBiseq
             levepyy ueqir)                 10}901;05 sofew uequl)                      1039/05 JOUIW Uequr)                        3eaNIg [2907]
                                                                                         Spiepueyg UbISoq              BMpeow odnd                     UNO OOSBAA UOT) — c-Le eIGeL
25-12 aBed
                                                                                                                                                 OLOZ XXXX "XX
                                                                                                                                     suojsiaid puey-1z seydey5
                                              UbUUe          t uU 6
    Va                                                          ~\                   (—             O9P'LZ ‘OSH 8 Obh'LZ ‘OZPLZ             \
                                                                                           ‘OLYLZ ‘007LZ ‘(H) 8 (€) - (L)(O)0E0"F2 suoHoag-
                  OOP be 8 OSP'LE ‘OEPLZ 8 ‘OLYLZ                                                               “‘payejau
               00v'bZ ‘(H) 8 (e) - (L)(9)0€0' Lz sucyoas-                                   sounosel-uoU s! asn Aled ay} J! 7 24} Lodn Jo
                              pauinbey s!                                                 pajejal eounose s} asn Avewud eu Jt Auedosd LL au
         peoy dqNg & pajejay Sounosay-uON SI esp) AIEWL, JI-                              uodn peo olqnd e einbas seuoz sy ‘SO ‘IL-4 ‘L-W-
“                             pajejey                                                                       Ayedoid oy                                   >
         aounosay si asf) AJBWLd JI Saledold O} 3 p UeeNjeg-                              ay} uodn peo aqnd e auinbas sauoz aoJnosey-UOK-
                     Aluo sauoz sy ‘SO ‘IL-4 ‘1-V-                                                            S@uoz |IV-
                                                                              ——-
                            SPeOY BBA                                                                       speroy d1qnNg
    Ne                             *                             /                                               ”                            /
                                                            (LH) (2Z)(9)0€0°bz uoRseg-
                                                              Aju saedaig ¢ 0} dn-
                                                                   $8U07 |IV-
                                                             peoy jugwesey ayeAud
                                                                         cH
                                                             (e) - (L)0e0'bz uoHO@s-
                                                                   Aug Ayedoig 1-
                                                                      S8U0Z   jiy-
                                                            AeMOAlig - SSe00y POBUIG
                                                                         b#
                                                        (MOj9g /-1Z — #-1Z SeunBl4 99g) sseo0y Ayedosg Jo Ayouesolty — ¢-1.7 ounBi4
                                                                                                                                                    ao-1z eBed
                                                                                                                    Page 21-59

Figure 21-4 - Direct Access via a “Public Road” or “Private Road” (Driveway). In all zones, a single property is
considered to have direct access via a “Public Road” or “Private Road” if the property intersects a lawfully established
“Public Road” or “Private Road” and has a legal right to enter and exit the “Public Road” or “Private” road.

Figure 21-5 — Private Easement Road. In all zones, up to but not exceeding 3 properties may have their primary access
by way of a “Private Easement Road”. Upon the fourth, it must become “Public Road” or “Private Road” depending on
the zone and the primary use of the properties.

                                              No Development                              Driveway
                       Driveway

                                                            rivate Easement Road

                                                                         an                            Chapter 21-Land Divisions
                                                                        ae                                        XX, XXXX 2010
Page 21-60

Figure 21-6 — Private Road. in A-1, F-1, OS, AS zones only, between 4 and 10 properties may have their primary
access via a “Private Road” if the primary use of the properties is resource related. If the primary purpose is residential
the access shall become a “Public Road” upon the 4" property using it as its primary access.

                                                                                                          Pi
                                                                                   |                        b
                            Driveway         Driveway                                         Driveway    |’ ;

                                                        Private-Road.                                    ie
                                                                                                            R    ~

                                                              Driveway                                      °
                               Driveway
                                                                                                            a
     5                                                                                       Driveway       d

Chapter 21-Land Divisions                                    9 n 1   * fn fn 1 0
XX, KOCK 2010
OLOT XXKX "XK
                                                      4

SUOIS{|AIQ PUET-LZ se}deYD                   UFuurbe
                                                           ~

                             AeMoAg
                                                          JusWudojsAeq ON                     Aemenug
                    Loeu!.

                                               peoy ongnd -
                     oO
                     oa.

                              KEMSAIG                     Aemonuq                          Aemonuq
                                        _]
                     ws
                                        ‘peo payedipap Ajoyiqnd e ein sseooe Areuuud s19u) Bulaey seniedoid fo sequunu ayy
   0} SUOE}WI] OU Ge Bey] “Peyejei Sounosel-uOU Ss! ssn AleuULd By} f! yy SU} UOdN 10 payeja1 sounosal S| asn AJEWLd ayy
    J! Auedoid wtb Ou} uodn ,peoy dliqnd, & ewoseg ||eYys sseo0e UB SeU0Z SY ‘SO ‘bd ‘E-W ul “seedoid ¢ UeY} eIOW 0}
 sseooe Arewid saplaodd ji Ji ,peoy IqNd, & Bwi0deq |JeYs sseooe UB SOUOZ BdJNOSeI-UOU Ul "pROY D1qQNg — Z-}z enBi4
 Vo-bz Obed