IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON                       FILED
                                                                                   WASCO COUNTY
                             IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO
                                                                                  WO JAN-9       Po   Bu

     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY PLANNING                                RARER LEBRETON COATS
     AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT'S REQUEST TO                                        COURTY CLERK
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED POST-
     ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS)
     TO THE WASCO COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE FIRE   ) ORDINANCE
     STANDARD TEXT TO REFLECT BEST AVAILABLE     )
     SCIENCE AND ACHIEVE BEST COMPATIBILITY WITH _)
     OREGON DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY STANDARDS)
     AND OREGON STATE FIRE CODE. (FILE NUMBER
     LUA-06-103)

            NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

     consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business

     and a majority of the Court being present; and

            IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:          That the Wasco County Planning Department

     has requested a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments

     to the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance fire standards text to

     reflect best available science and achieve best compatibility with Oregon Department of

     Forestry standards and Oregon State fire code; and pursuant to Measure 56, Wasco

10   County sent notification to all affected landowners on August 3, 2006; and

11          IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:          That on August 15, 2006, the Wasco County

12   Planning Department held a legally notified public workshop with the Wasco County

13   Planning Commission, at the Gorge Discovery Center, to review back ground

14   information and options for staff recommendations for the purpose of identifying

15   preferred options and any potential needs for additional information prior to hearing; and

16          IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:          That on August 28, 2006, The Wasco County

17   Planning Department held a legally notified public workshop, at the Maupin Community

                                                                 /909-t0e Cys)
     Page 1 - ORDER
     Center, to review back ground information and options for staff recommendations for the

     purpose of identifying preferred options and any potential needs for additional

     information prior to hearing; and

            IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That on Tuesday, September 12,

     2006, the Wasco County Pianning Commission met to conduct a legally notified public

     hearing on the above matter.    Following receipt and review of evidence, the

     Commission deliberated and, on a vote of 6 to 0 (1 Position Vacant) voted to elevate the

     request for a Post-Ackriowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments to

     the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect

10   best available science and achieve best compatibility with Oregori Department of

11   Forestry standards and Oregon State fire code to the Wasco County Court with no

12   recommendation; and

13          IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That the Wasco County Court met

14   at the hour of 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday, November 1, 2006, in the Wasco County

15   Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, in The Dalles, Oregon, for a

16   legally notified review of the Wasco County Planning Department's request for a Post-

17   Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments to the Wasco County

18   Land Use and Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available

19   science and achieve best compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards

20   and Oregon State fire code.    A valid procedural challenge was made and the hearing

21   was rescheduled to December 13, 2006; and

22          IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That the Wasco County Court met

23   at the hour of 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday, December 13, 2006, in the Wasco County

     Page 2 - ORDER
                                                                J3t0- bole Cys)
     Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, in The Dalles, Oregon, for a

     legally notified review of the Wasco County Pianning Department's request for a Post-

     Acknowledgement Pian Amendment for legislative amendments to the Wasco County

     Land Use and Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available

     science and achieve best compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards

     and Oregon State fire code; and

            IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:               That the Court reviewed the

     record heard the Staff recommendation and all relevant comments from the parties.

     The Court considered the matter, and based upon the testimony present, the Court,

10   being fully apprised in the premises, voted 3 - 0 to approve the siting standards,

11   defensible space standards, and construction Standards, voted 2 -1 to approve the

12   water standards, and voted 2 -1 to approve the access standards, regarding the Wasco

13   County Planning Department's request for a Post-Acknowledgement Pian Amendment

14   for legislative amendments to the Wasco County Land Use and Development

15   Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available science and achieve best

i6   compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards and Oregon State fire code,

17   as laid out in Attachment A; and

18          NOW THEREFORE IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:                That the request by the Wasco

19   County Planning Department for a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for

20   legislative amendments to the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance

21   fire standards text to reflect best available science and achieve best compatibility with

22   Oregon Department of Forestry standards and Oregon State fire code is approved.

23

     Page 3 - ORDER

                                                                  /3007- 0006                    Ys)
                                                                   Te Ona
                 SIGNED this 1** day of December, 2008
    Approved as to Form:
            ,                                                                                WASCO COUNTY COURT

    Eric   boa
             J Ni 7
       ric J. Nisley
                                                                                                        ae
                                                                                                     tate
                                                                                             pe Ericksen, Judge

    Wasco County District Attorney                                                                   Lh fe/ L ff. S,We, ;
                                                                                             sie McKee Commissioner

                                                                                             : AG AA       (li Avi,
                                                                                             Sherry Hoyiday, Commissioner

PALong Range\Title Ill Forest Zone and Fire Safety\Fire Safety Standards\County CourtiCC Order.doc

     Page 4 - ORDER
             |                                @

                 DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

           CHAPTER 10 FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS

SECTION                                                                  PAGE
10.010    PURPOSE OF FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS                               10-1
10.020    APPLICIBILITY OF FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS                         10-2
10.030    INTRODUCTION                                                   10-5
10.110    SITING STANDARDS — LOCATING STRUCTURES                         10-8
          FOR GOOD DEFENSIBILITY
10.120    DEFENSIBLE SPACE — CLEARING AND MAINTAINING                     10-12
          A FIRE FUEL BREAK
10.130    CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS                            10-16
          AND STRUCTURES — DECREASING THE IGNITION
          RISKS BY PLANNING FOR A MORE FIRE SAFE
          STRUCTURE
10.140    ACCESS STANDARDS — PROVIDING SAFE ACCESS                        10-20
          TO AND ESCAPE FROM YOUR HOME
10.150    FIRE PROTECTION OR ON SITE WATER REQUIRED -                     10-32
          ENSURING DWELLINGS HAVE SOME FIRE
          PROTECTION AVAILABLE THROUGH MANNED OR
          UNMANNED RESPONSE
10.210    FIRE SAFETY STANDARD    REVIEW PROCESS                          10-36
10.220    MODIFICATION OF FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS                           10-36
10.230    FIRE SAFETY PLAN                                                10-37
10.240    REVIEW OF REQUESTED MODIFICATIONS                               10-38

                                         J300- tote (¢s)
                                                  Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
/000- Lore lis)
                                                                                                   Page 10-1

                          CHAPTER 10 FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS

SECTION      10.010   Purpose of Fire Safety Standards:

A. To inform and notify rural residents that fire protection services are limited or non
   existent through much of Wasco County.

B. Encourage residents to become familiar with the structural fire protection district that
   will respond to their property (if there is one), and

C. To notify them that the volunteer fire protection districts can only serve if they have
     sufficient trained volunteers to meet demands.         Please consider volunteering.

D. To reduce threats to life, safety, property, and resources by improving access to and
   defensibility of development in rural areas.

E. To     educate   current   and   future   property   owners   about   fire safety     standards      and
     regulate fire standards in a manner that decreases review process where possible
     while communicating requirements as clearly as possible.

F.   To   provide flexibility where    necessary    by providing for a review          process    that will
     allow modifications to fire safety standards where            necessary with comment               and
     recommendations from emergency responders.

G. To establish consistency between standards currently listed in various                          zones,
   Oregon Department of Forestry regulations, and best available science.

                                                                           po              7-00 ©              ¢s)
                                                                            Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-2

SECTION         10.020    Applicability of Fire Safety Standards

A. Applicability of Fire Safety Standards in Different Rural Zones:
   County Ordinances affect all rural zones (all zones outside an Urban Growth
   Boundary). Alli rural zones are subject to fire standards but the applicability of the
   specific standards varies by zone and by use type. Zoning terms used to classify
     groups of land use designations in the Fire Safety Standard Checklist, Sections
     10.110 to 10.150, are defined in the following table (any more specific distinctions
     based on parcel shape or specific zoning designation are also called out in the
     checklist):

 Zoning Classifications Referred to in the Fire                          Zones
 Safety Standards Checklist, Sections 10.110-10.150
 All Zones - All rural             Exception Areas and Smaller           R-2, R-C, R-l, A-R, RC-TV,
 zones anywhere outside | Lot Residential- Exception                     RC-Wamic
 an adopted Urban                  areas with smaller lot residential,
 Growth Boundary                   rural commercial, rural industrial
                                   or rural community land use
                                   designations.
                                   Resource Zones and Large Lot | FF-10, RR-10, RR-5, A-1 (160),
                                   Residential- Resource or              A-1 (40), F-1 & F-2
                                   recreation zones and rural
                                   residential areas with larger
                                   minimum lot sizes.

Please also work with the County Planning Department if you are permitting only an
accessory structure or replacing or adding onto an existing home commercial or
industrial structure and they will help you determine which standards do apply to that
specific type of land use in accordance with (B) below.

B.   Applicability of Fire Standards to Different Types of Land Uses

     1. Zones affected by Fire Standards
            Fire standards are applicable in all rural zones but different standards may apply
            in different types of zones.          The applicability of fire standards by zone is
            discussed in (A) above and           noted in fire safety standards checklist below,
            Sections 10.110 to 10.150. The checklist also highlights any specific differences
            in the applicability of the standard due to size of lot or specific zoning.

     2.     Uses affected by Fire Standards
            Some   fire standards      are   applicable   only to new     dwellings   while    others   are
            applicable to all kinds of structures and alterations to structures. The following
            table lists the fire safety standards applicable to different types of development.

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards                                             4      OO}-       LO/6           (vs)

                                      ee
                                                                                            Page 10-3

      Applicability of Fire Safety Standards to Different Types of Land Uses
                          Siting — (A) Avoid slopes > 40% & (B) Set back from top of slopes
All New Dwellings and     > 30%
Rural Commercial or       Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break, & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
Rural Industrial          to unmanaged   lands around structures
Buildings                 Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
CUP, Subject to           (E) Overhanging trees, {F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
Standards, Site Plan      Access — (A) Improved Surface & Minimum Driveway widths,
Review, and, Permitted    (B) Turn Radius, Maximum Slopes, and Pull Outs, (C) Physical
Dwellings                 Clearance and Fire Fuel Breaks on Driveways, (D) Turnarounds,
                          (E) Bridges and Culverts, (F) Gates, (G) Signs, (H) Roads to the
                          property.
                          Structural Fire Protection Required
                          Siting — (A) Avoid slopes > 40%, (B) Set back from top of slopes >
Relocated Dwellings       30%
(Replacement in a new     Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break, & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
location)                 to unmanaged lands around structures.
                          Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          {E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (A) Improved Surface & Minimum Driveway widths,
                          {B) Turn Radius, Maximum Slopes, and Pull Outs, (C) Physical
                          Clearance and Fire Fuel Breaks on Driveways, (D) Turnarounds,
                          ({E) Bridges and Culverts, (F} Gates, (G) Signs
                          Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break, & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
Replacement Dwellings     to unmanaged lands around structures.
(in Kind — same size /    Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, {C)
same location)            Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (A) Improved Surface & Minimum Driveway widths,
                          (B) Turn Radius, Maximum    Slopes, and Pull Outs, (C) Physical
                          Clearance and Fire Fuel Breaks on Driveways, (D} Tumarounds,
                          {E) Bridges and Culverts, (F) Gates, (G) Signs
                         | Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break, & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
Improved Expanded         to unmanaged lands around structures
Dwellings                 Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (C) Physical Clearance and Fire Fuel Breaks on
                          Driveways, (F) Gates, (G) Signs
                          Siting — (A) Avoid slopes > 40% & B. Set back from top of slopes >
Accessory Buildings       30%
                          Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break
                          Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (C} Physical Clearance and Fire Fuel Breaks on
                          Driveways, (F) Gates, (G) Signs

                                                          f30)- bot, LYS)
                                                                     Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-4

                                       Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B)}
Accessory or Agricultural Structures   Spark Arresters, (C)
                                       Clear Clean & Protected Decks (D) Screened
                                       Exterior Openings,
                                       (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground
                                       Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                                       Fire Mitigation Plan shall be submitted
Land Divisions                         idenitifying all home sites, building erivelopes,
                                       and access as necessary to demonstrate
                                       compliance with all applicable fire standards
                                       on proposed lots.

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                              L3000-00%6 (ts
                                                                                                 Page 10-5

SECTION     10.030   Introduction

A. Cause of Wild Land and Fire Spread and Residential Starts

   4.   Radiated Heat — Fires are started by heat that radiates or spreads out from
        flames. (e.g. run your finger above a candle flame) Flames of every size radiate
        heat. Smaller ground level flames radiate less heat than larger flames generated
        by crown fires. The larger the flames near a structure the greater the chance of
        the structure being ignited by radiant heat. Radiant heat is also hotter above the
        flames than it is beside the flame so where a structure is located on a slope can
        also affect the risk of a structure igniting from radiated heat from a wild fire.

   2.   Convection   or Direct   Contact   with   Flames   — Fires   are    also    ignited    by direct
        contact between the structure and the flame.         When flammable material (wood
        piles, shrubbery, dead leaves or grass) accumulates under eaves or decks or
        near the house the structure is exposed to a much greater risk of ignition as the
        flammable fuel will feed the flames right at the structure.

                                                                           L000- vue Ces)
                                                                           Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-6

     3.     Firebrands or Contact with Flying Embers — Fires can start from burning embers
            carried aloft from:as far away as a mile or more. Fire brands are most dangerous
            when they:
            a. Land on flammable roofs or decks,
            b. Settle or are sucked into openings in eaves, soffits, roof vents, under decking,
                or in crawl spaces through foundation vents, or
            c. Fall on and ignite nearby vegetation or flammable materials especially if
                stored or accumulated under eaves, decks or other structural extensions that
                can trap the heat generated by the burning of flammable materials.

B. What’s Necessary to Defend Against Wild Land Fire?
   1. Access to structures and property.
   2. Room to maneuver around structures.
   3. Elimination and containment of fire fuels to limit                        ignition   risks   around    the
      structure.
     4.     Use   of fire resistant   materials     to decrease      ignition    risks at the dwelling        or
            structure.
     5.     Oni site water supplies to help extinguish           a small fire before        it requires a full
            response or becomes a wild land fire start.

C.   Fire Safety Standards
     Sections 10.110 to 10.150 state the Fire Safety Standards on one page.                         The zones
     in which       the   safety   standards      apply,   the   benefits   of compliance          with   safety
     Standards, and the necessary actions if an applicable standard can not be met are
     Stated on the facing pages. Sections 10.210 to 10.240 describe the review and self
     certification process and necessary steps to permitting a modification of fire safety
     standards.

se st                                                                 h-u)- thle (us;
(300)—00/e (ys)
Page 10-6

SECTION              10.110       Siting Standards - Locating Structures for Good             Defensibility

                                                                Tye   sTery                          Ber        iAld,
       40.                             coe                  f Rone                                  (TRC eee
                                                            4                 :   ;            -_          we         oe

       BO

       oO                                   -

                 f            :                 e   a                                                             E
                        st        oh    .                              :                                          *

             "                         ve               a        40   go              20                         a

             1)                   Flick MEA,
                     Fol ogee

chav Fi Say Sadar                                                                          /009-00%e Ls)
                                                                                                           Page 10-9

A. if Yes Then                                         A.   If No Then

   Extensive     and   costly grading   and   ground   A modification of fire safety standards must be
   disturbance will be avoided                         requested.
   Emergency responders will have room to
   access and maneuver around all sides of             The fire mitigation plan submitted                 with the
   the structure                                       request    for  modification must                   propose
   Structure will avoid exposure to the hottest        mitigation measures such as:
   side of fast moving flames climbing the
   slope                                                    Structural fire proofing (thermal windows,
   Structure will avoid potential of trapping               smaller windows, fire retardant building
   heat rising off of flames on the slope                   materials on all sides)
   below.                                                   NFPA Sprinkler system if access standards
                                                            cannot be met
                                                            Expanded fire fuel breaks
                                                            Additional irrigation on all          sides    of   the
                                                            home and an on site water supply capable
                                                            of   running    the      irrigation    system        for
                                                            extended periods
                                                            Evacuation plan

                                                                              Lacn-tne Ls)
                                                                                  Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-10

                                            No structures or other extensions closer than 90 feet from top of siopa
                                                        Stone or Concrete pati rather than. above ground decking
                                                                                                    Enclosed sotfits

                                         ..                  oe
                                         = ES           os —_                                               3
                                         is re    =
                                                  a           a                                             5.
                                                                                                            iy HR

                                   nae      .    ta
                                      oon

                                    Fire resistant or riort combustible exterioe materials (siding, decking, roofing)
                                                      Large timber
                                                               of metal supports
                                                                               for decks or other extensions
                                                                         Decking aree screened or enclosed
                                                                                                    Enclosed soitits |

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards                                           fAtOb -L0leles)
                                                                                                                      Page 10-11

B(1). If Yes Then                                                 B(1).    If No Then

«    Emergency       responders     will have        room    to   Refer to B(2) below.
     access and maneuver around all sides of
     the building
*    Building will avoid exposure          to the hottest
     side   of fast moving       flames     climbing        the
     slope
¢    Building    will avoid   trapping     heat rising off
     flames below.

B(2) - If Yes Then                                                B(2) - If No Then

e«   Emergency        responders     can     still    access      A modification of fire safety standards must be
     and    maneuver      around     all   sides      of    the   requested.
     building
e    Building will be closer to the hottest side of               The     fire   mitigation     plan    submitted     with   the
     fast moving flames climbing the slope but                    request    for  modification               must     propose
     additional fire proofing of the building will                mitigation measures such as:
     help mitigate risks of ignition
e    Flattening the design of the fagade on the                   e     Eliminate decks and eaves
     down hill side of the building will help avoid               «     Structural fire proofing          (thermal windows,
     potential of trapping heat rising off of                           smaller windows, fire             retardant building
     flames     on   the slope     below    allowing        the         materials on ali sides)
     building to be constructed nearer the top of                 «     NFPA        Sprinkler          system _— if     access
     slope.                                                             standards cannot be met
                                                                  »     Expanded fire fuel breaks
                                                                        Additional irrigation on all sides of the
                                                                        home and an on site water supply capable
                                                                        of   running   the   irrigation system for
                                                                        extended periods
                                                                  e     Evacuation plan

                                                                                                J9000-046 1. uw)
                                                                                              Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                  @                                                   e
Page 10-12

SECTION        10.120        Defensible Space — Clearing and Maintaining a Fire Fue! Break

Fire Fuel Break Includes: Irrigated fire resistant domestic plantings, low volume slow burning plantings,
and trees encouraged         to provide shade and ground     cooling. Trees should        be grouped.   Groups of trees
shall be spaced to avoid creation of a continuous tree canopy. Trees shall be kept in healthy fire resistant
condition.   Trees   shail   be limbed   up to create   a vacant    area    between   ground   fuels and   canopy fuels.
Under story vegetation shail be minimized and ground cover shall be kept trimmed low to the ground.

                                                                           Fl.    LUM Eo OF pages
                                                                                 LIME CO Lig
                                                                                 iio LAPPYS. Poe hs

Fire Fuel Break Area Plan View                                     Fire Fuel Break Area Sample tltustration

MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR FIRE FUEL BREAK                            AREA:
   Ground cover maximum 4’ tall;
    Trees limbed up approximately 8 feet from the ground,
    Trees kept free from dead, dry or flammable material;
    Ladder fuels must be removed;
    No shrubs or tall plants under trees;
    Shrubs only in isolated groupings          that maximize       edges    of ornamental   beds   to avoid continuous
    blocks of ground fuel;
e   Keep shrubs and ornamental beds 15 feet away from edge of buildings and drip line of tree canopy;
    and
e   Use well irrigated or flame resistant vegetation (SEE OSU Extension Service publication called “Fire
    Resistant Plants for Oregon Home Landscapes’)

cn te ey Sonne                                                                              Pton-toe SD)
                                                                                                     Page 10-13

A.   If Yes Then                                        A.   If No Then

e    Eliminating ladder fuels and limbing trees         A modification of fire safety standards must be
     up helps keep fire on the ground                   requested.
e    including trees in the fire fuel break can
     catch   and   deflect   flying   embers   before   The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
     they land on the structure                         request for modification must document that
«    Spacing between bedding plants or shrub            the fire fuel break cannot be met:
     groupings allows ornamental plantings that
     do not create a fuel bed                                Demonstration why an alternate site on the
e    Irrigation provides moisture during the dry             property cannot be used to allow for the full
     months and shading. from healthy trees                  fire fuel break.
     retains moisture longer. Moisture is key to             Demonstration that an easement allowing
     helping dissipate fire energy.                          for the full fire fuel break cannot be
e    Shading by healthy limbed trees retains                 provided for by easement on adjoining land
     moisture longer. Moisture is key to helping             The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
     dissipate fire energy near the home.                    request for modification must also propose
«    Fire resistant vegetation also helps       slow         mitigation measures such as:
     spread of fire toward the structure.                    Eliminate decks and eaves
                                                             Structural fire proofing (thermal windows,
                                                             smalier windows, fire retardant building
                                                             materials on all sides)
                                                             Additional irrigation on the side of the home
                                                             where   fire fuel break width     requirements
                                                             cannot be met and an on site water supply
                                                             capable of running the irrigation system for
                                                             extended periods
                                                             Evacuation plan

                                                                          J200)- tole C¥s))
                                                                               Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-14

«   Those    developing    steeper   properties are advised to provide   breaks   in the tree canopy   across   the
    slope at the outer edges. and extending beyond the fire fuel breaks.
e   Land beyond the fire fuel break can always be managed for additional safety.
e   This is the place for tight trees, dense under-story vegetation, tall waving grass, and unmanaged or
    less managed lands.
e   The outer edge of the fuel break zone can be feathered back into the unmanaged area to provide for
    amore natural appearing edge condition.

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards                                                   /::A    007         @O   ord       ys)
                                                                                                      Page 10-15

                                   n:           :
                                   t Residential Zones”

B. If Yes Then                                                  B. If No Then

e    If slopes cannot be avoided providing for | This standard is advisory.      No request                  for
     broad breaks in the canopy across the | modification        of fire  safety   standards                   is
     slope 20-30 feet and more can help limit | required if it cannot be met.
     the spread of a canopy fire up slope.
e«   Keeping some wild unmanaged areas is
     OK if they are far enough from the structure
     that a wild fire’s progress will be slowed by
     the   decrease    in   fire        fuels       as   fire
     approaches developed areas.
e    NOTE:     slope hazards increase the threat
     of structural fire ignition by increasing the
     chance of a wild land fire getting into and
     traveling through the tree canopy.   {f you
     are developing in a wooded area with steep
     slopes, every attempt should be made to
     locate away from the steeper ground. (see
     10.110(A) and (B) above)

                                                                       Lan- tole LYE)
                                                                                Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-16                             .

SECTION              10.130      Construction                    Standards          for     Dwellings         and   Structures   —
                                 Decreasing the ignition risks by planning for a more fire safe
                                 structure.

  whoennnwenenngad                                          :‘                             Ww    D        .
                       38    E                  Ones        5                lee,     fF    ot PATS
                     ovata        os       we    ee    oh                     aa           afi       a)

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                                             Page 10-17

A(1).   lf Yes Then                            A(1).   If No Then

Your roof will resist ignition from fire | There is no way to mitigate risks of a wild land
brands. Fire resistant roofing is one of the | fire ignition related to use of more flammable
most important standards of defensibility      roofing.     Fire brands can be carried over a
                                               quarter mile to land on a roof.

A(2). If Yes Then                              A(2).   If No Then

Sparks and embers in the fire box of a| Spark         armesters   are    common    and    widely
fireplace or stove will not be allowed to | available.      There is no alternative to the
escape through the chimney and start aj requirement          that   they    be  installed    and
wild land fire.                            | maintained.

                                                                     Ljne7-000 Ls)
                                                                       Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-18

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                   /3009- vie ls)
                                                                                                     Page 10-19

               a
B(1). If Yes Then                                 B(1). IfNo Then
Horizontal extensions, like decks, will be        There      is no   alternative   to the   screening      and
protected from the accumulation of fire fuel.     maintenance required under and around the
Horizontal extensions create a heat trap for      exterior of a structure, its decks, and other
heat if flames are generated beneath them.        horizontal extensions.
Limiting   fire      fuels   under   horizontal
extensions and      screening to keep embers
or fire bombs      from getting in under lower
decks will help eliminate the risk of heat
being trapped under a deck or porch and
igniting a structure.
B(2). If Yes Then                                 B(2).     If No Then

Vents    are built to funnel    air through       There is no alternative to the screening of exterior
enclosed areas of a structure.     Screening      vents and openings.
on the vents or behind vent louvers ensure
that embers are not sucked into the hard to
reach recesses behind the vents
B(3). If Yes Then                                 B(3).     If No Then

Healthy green trees around the house can          If maintenance of trees near or overhanging the
be retained and may actually help shelter         house is too onerous the trees can be removed.
the dwelling from fire brands.                    NOTE: The presence of trees has been shown to
                                                  have the benefits discussed in 10.120(A) above if
Trees and their debris must be maintained         properly maintained.
in a clean healthy condition.
B(4). If Yes Then                                 B(4).     If No Then

e   Threat of a fire start due to downed          There is no alternative to the requirement that
    service lines will be minimized.              private utility service routes be kept clear and that
e   Access to and around the structure will       development       of new     buildings or structures
    be simplified by limiting aerial access to    served by electricity have a clearly marked power
    the structure to a single location.           disconnect switch at the pole or off grid power
e    Responders will be able to shut down         source.
     main power so they can respond safely
    to the structure at the main service
    switch.
B(5). If Yes Then                                 B(5). IfNo Then
This stand pipe will be available to the          Rural response times are always longer than in
homeowner for use to help contain smaller         town. The land owner must do what they can to
fires prior to emergency responders getting       provide immediate response to small fire starts.
to the site.                                      No alterative is provided to provision of a
                                                  standpipe 50 feet from all combustible structures.

                                                                          (3007-0006 Lis)
                                                                               Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-20

SECTION         10.140         Access Standards - Providing safe access to and escape from
                               your home.

IMPROVED SURFACE REQUIREMENTS

 23% minus
 Gravel leveling course
                           ve    tae    ee    —   ve      co         ee         serene

 6-8" pit run      Zz              oe                      _     .               bow
 Base rock

                                                                                          90-95% Compaction

Driveway surface standards shall meet the specifications above or meet an alternate design standard
established by a licensed engineer who will certify that the alternate design standard is capable of
supporting 75,000 pound gross vehicle weight year round, wet or dry. Compliance shall be demonstrated
prior to inspection by County Road Department to confirm compliance with road approach permit.

MINIMUM DRIVEWAY WIDTHS

                          mn

Minimum all improved width                   Minimum   improved width           Minimum   improved width
is 12 feet on straight sections              is 14 feet on single curves       is 16 feet when curves are
And through gentle curves                    with less than 150 foot radius     linked or located on a slope
                                                                               in excess of 10%

chef Sole Snr                                                                 /3009- ouel v5)
                                                                                                          Page 10-21

A. If Yes Then                                   A.   lf No Then

Emergency responders will be able to bring all   A modification of fire safety standards must be
vehicles onto your property and to your          requested.
building site.                                   The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
                                                 request      for      modification             must       propose
                                                 mitigation measures such as:
                                                 «   A demonstration why standards cannot be
                                                     met and that an alternate site will not allow
                                                      standards to be met.
                                                 e    Proposed alternate road              lay out that can
                                                      allow the best access                possible to the
                                                      building site.
                                                 e    NFPA Sprinkler system if alternate access
                                                      standards   cannot  provide    for  timely
                                                      response
                                                 e    Expanded fire fuel breaks
                                                 e    Additional     irrigation     on    all     sides     of the
                                                      home and an on site water supply capable
                                                      of   running      the       irrigation       system        for
                                                      extended periods
                                                 e    Structural fire proofing           (thermal         windows,
                                                      smaller windows, fire retardant building
                                                      materials on all sides)
                                                 e    Evacuation plan and acknowledgment that
                                                      some or all fire equipment may not have
                                                      sufficient access   to your  property to
                                                      respond

                                                                       /007-the(. ws)
                                                                              Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-22

Minimum 20’ turn radius onto driveway                   Minimum 48’ turn radius for curves or
from road.                                              switchbacks in the driveway.   Larger radius,
                                                        more gentle turns are desirable where possible.

IS THE SLOPE OF YOUR DRIVEWAY GENTLE ENOUGH FOR EQUIPMENT TO GET UP AND DOWN
SAFELY?

Maximum steady grade of 10% or                         Maximum steady grade of 10% may be exceeded
10 feet of elevation gain over 100 feet of distance    for short pitches. Short (up to 100 foot lengths)
                                                       intermittent sections may be up to 12%
                                                       No more than three 100’ lengths in 1,000 feet.

IF YOUR DRIVEWAY IS LONGER THAN 200 FEET ARE TURNOUTS                  PROVIDED ALONG ITS
LENGTH?

                                                  40
Turnouts need to be provided at least every 400 feet. Turn outs are intended to allow vehicles to pass
safely, especially during an emergency. This should be kept in mind when siting the turnouts. Steeper
slopes or tighter corners may require turnouts to be located closer than every 400 feet.

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                        L009 -0t1e @S)
                                                                                              Page 10-23

             one:
B.   If Yes Then                                        B. If No Then

«    Emergency responders will be able to bring all | See (A) above
     vehicles onto your property and to your building
     site.

e    You will be able to get off your property as the
     fire equipment accesses the site.

                                                                 J?                    00. A us)
                                                                        Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-24
     aig
      Cham
      Veet
       iA

             ao

                                                                                            to pass through
                                  13’ vert ical and a min imu m of 14’ horizontal clearance
    Responding vehicles need over
                              ay
    vegetation along a drivew

                                 ie.
                                   &
                                   ‘A

                                                                                            required.
                                                                ter line of the driveway is
                                  10 feet either side of the cen
      A fire fuel break extending

                                                                    £3007-C¢LS)
        Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standa
                                      rds

                                                                   ee
                                                                                                    Page 10-25

C.   If Yes Then                                            C.   If No Then

e«   Emergency     responders will be able to access | See (A) above
     your    property   with   out    damaging       your
     landscaping, native trees, or their vehicles.

e    If there is a need to respond from the driveway,
     there will be room to maneuver more safely
     around the emergency vehicles.

e    If there is a major wild land fire, the fire fuel
     break along the drive will help ensure that the
     driveway      remains    passable     during     the
     response.

                                                                         /oxoo)- vowel vs)
                                                                              Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-26

95 foot diameter cul-de-sac                  120’ hammerhead

Acceptable alternative to 120’ hammerhead   Acceptable alternative to 120°
hammerhead

says                                               15007-00/6lus.)
                                                                                                   Page 10-27

D.   If Yes Then                                           D.   If No Then

Responders     accessing      .your    property in  an/|   See (A) above
emergency will be able to get turned around to
leave the property,       make     room for additional
responders, or to refill tenders and return.

                                                                       Lp07-L
                                                                            CL 4s)
                                                                             Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-28

Culverts larger than 6’ diameter and all bridges that are relied on to access development must be
engineered constructed and maintained to support 75,000 pounds gross vehicle weight. Culverts less
than 6’ diameter must be installed to manufacturers specifications including requirements that the culvert
be embedded sufficiently to maximize water flow and minimize risk of scouring or undercutting below the
pipe.

                                           Beye         oan

                                                 ie
Bridges should match the finished width of the road or driveway.      A minimum bridge width of 14 feet is
required and may be built if pullouts 7’ wide and 50 feet long are provided on either side of the bridge.

        Gates need to swing or glide
        Gates need to be operable by a single person and to be maintained in operable condition
        The horizontal clearance through a gate must be a minimum of 14 feet
        Electric or locked gates must be operable or removable by emergency responders.

 Signs required to:
     e  Limit parking
        Mark fire lanes
        Direct responders to on site water source
        Identify electrical service shut off @ the power pole or off grid power source, and
        Post weight limits on existing bridges or culverts

 Must be made and maintained so that:
     e   Lettering is light colored and reflective against a dark background — except red and white
         12X18” fire lane, no parking signs Per Figure D 103.6 2004 Oregon Fire Code.
     e   Letters are a minimum of 4” tall
     e   Letters are a minimum of .5” wide letter strokes, and
 Signs are posted and kept clear of vegetation so they are fully visible

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                           EMO) DOMMES)
                                                                                               Page 10-29

E. If Yes Then                                         E.   If No Then

Emergency     responders   will be able to get to or   A modification of fire        safety   standards
through your property without risk    of damage   to   must be requested.
equipment or roadway structures                        The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
                                                       request for modification must propose
                                                       mitigation measures including:
                                                       e   Any culvert greater than 6’ diameter
                                                            or bridge    not capable     of supporting
                                                            75,000 GVW      shall be posted       at both
                                                            entrances
                                                       e«   Other applicable mitigation measures
                                                            listed in (A) above

F. If Yes Then                                         F. lf No Then

Emergency    responders will be able to access your    No modifications exist for the requirement
property.                                              for a passable gate.

G.   If Yes Then                                       G. If No Then

Emergency responders will be able to access and        No modifications exist for the requirement
navigate your property and the development site.       for that clear and legible signage be
                                                       installed and maintained.

                                                       LUO-10b (Ys)
                                                                         Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-30

DEFINITIONS        — WHO IMPROVES AND MAINTAINS WHICH EXISTING ROADS?

County Roads are:
    e  Fully dedicated public roads over which the County has full jurisdiction.
    e  The County is responsible for improvements and maintenance of county roads including
       bridges, culverts, ditches etc.
    e  Most, if not all public roads in the county meet the minimum access requirements for
       emergency vehicles

Local Access Roads are:
    e Public roads over which the County has limited jurisdiction.
    e    The County is not liable for failure to improve the local access road or keep it in repair.
    e¢   The County has limited ability to spend money on local access roads and expenditure on
         local access roads is made only in emergencies and is subject to special review process
         prior to the expenditure.
    e    Landowners served by the road must improve or maintain the road if it is to stay in good
         repair.
         Some local access roads have organized maintenance organizations but most do not.
         Many local access roads meet minimum access requirements but some will require
         improvements to be made accessible to emergency responders and all will require
         maintenance.

Private Roads are:
    e Neither public roads nor county roads.
    «    The County cannot improve or maintain private roads.
    e    Private roads serve more than one dwelling but are not required to be open to the public.
    e    The land owners served by the private road are solely responsible for its improvement
         and maintenance.
    e    Many private roads will require improvements to be made accessible to emergency
         responders and ali will require maintenance.

Driveways are:
    e    Private access roads serving no more than two dwellings.
    «    The home owner bears sole responsibility for driveway improvement and maintenance.

Per ORS 368.001-368.031

ACCESS ROAD STANDARDS — WHAT MAY HAVE TO BE DONE TO ROADS LEADING TO
BUT NOT PART OF YOUR PROPERTY?
If a legally created parcel is accessed by a County or State improved and maintained road, the
applicant must demonstrate that driveway standards are met on the property and is responsible
for continued maintenance of the driveway in accordance with standards.
If. a legally created parcel is accessed by a   local access or private road the road way will need

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                Lypon- vole CS)
                                                                                                 Page 10-31

to be determined to meet county road standards or minimum standards for fire apparatus
access road defined in Chapter 5 of the 2004 Oregon Fire Code prior to new construction. A
fire apparatus access road needs to have an improved all weather surface 20 feet wide or
sections of the road with a finished road surface width of 20’ for a length of 40’ at no greater
than 400 foot intervals. All access standards, other than width, tum radius, and slope or grade
that are applicable to driveways,   (A} ~ (H), are also applicable to local access and private
roads. Improvements made within a local access road will require a permit to do work in a public
ROW.
Land divisions creating new parcels need to improve roads up to the point of access to the
proposed land division to meet public road standards prior to final land division approval.

H.   If Yes Then                                      H.   If No Then

Emergency responders will be able to get to your | A modification of fire safety standards
property with any vehicle at a reasonable rate of ; must be requested.
speed with little risk of damage to equipment or | The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
roads.                                              request for modification must:
                                                    e   Employ        applicable     mitigation
                                                           measures listed in (A) above - AND -
                                                      e«   Demonstrate that county road or fire
                                                           apparatus access road standards
                                                           cannot feasibly be met.
                                                      e    Demonstrate      that   improvements
                                                           achieve      basic     access       (driveway
                                                           standard)    along sections        determined
                                                           incapable      of  meeting          a_  higher
                                                           standard.
                                                      e    If basic driveway standard is not met
                                                           at any point that section shall be
                                                           clearly   signed     from   both    directions
                                                           calling out the weight limit, width of
                                                           narrow road section, or grade and
                                                           length of steep road way etc.
                                                      ¢    Ability of responders to get to a site is
                                                           limited by the ability of an applicant to
                                                           make       and _= maintain     off    site
                                                           improvements.
                                                      e    The   land   owner     will be     notified   of
                                                           service     limitations  resulting    from
                                                           substandard access and required to
                                                           document         acknowledgement         of
                                                           limitations    to emergency       services
                                                           prior to receiving a building permit.

                                                                     3001-0 vs)
                                                                         Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-32

SECTION 10.150             Fire Protection or On Site Water Required - Ensuring dwellings
                           have some fire protection available through manned or
                           unmanned response.

DEFINITION - FIRE DISTRICT FOR PURPOSE OF APPLICATION OF FIRE STANDARDS.
An actively trained and reporting structural fire protection district having a boundary on file with
the State Fire Marshal and recognized as a qualified structural fire protection district by the
State Fire Marshal's Office.

 ON    SITE WATER         iS REQUIRED   IN BOTH     URBAN     AND    RURAL     ENVIRONMENTS         FOR
 FIRE SAFETY (Fire Flow Requirements)

 Dwellings      less than or equal to 3,500 square feet, can rely on emergency            responders   to
 meet the on site water requirements if they are inside a fire protection district.

 Dwellings in excess of 3,500 square feet require on site water in excess of the amount of
 water that could reasonably be delivered to the site by emergency responders. Dwellings in
 excess of 3,500 square feet need to provide an NFPA sprinkler system to meet on site water
 requirements. Provision of an NFPA sprinkler system meets fire code fire flow requirements.

 Structures must be located inside a structural fire protection district if possible. {t is not
 possible to be in a fire protection district when it is demonstrated that the dwelling cannot
 locate within, annex into a district, or contract with a structural fire protection district for service

Chapter 16-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                                                       Page 10-33

A. If Yes Then                                                   A. If No Then

«   A special taxing district exists and volunteer or | Refer to (B) Below
    professional fire fighters will respond to and
    defend a structure, to the best of their ability.

e   Installation    of   an   NFPA    approved      sprinkler
    system meets the fire flow requirements for
    rural structures when a responders’ ability to
    bring water to the site cannot. (see other
    benefits   of    NFPA     sprinkler   systems     in   (B)
    below)

                                                                                 L001 tots)
                                                                                 Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-34

 ON SITE WATER IS REQUIRED IN BOTH URBAN AND                    RURAL ENVIRONMENTS          FOR
 FIRE SAFETY EVEN OUTSIDE A STRUCTURAL FIRE                     PROTECTION DISTRICT         (Fire
 Flow Requirements)

 Dwellings can be located outside a structural fire protection district upon demonstration
 that the parcel or home site cannot locate within, annex into or contract with a structural fire
 protection district for service. if a dwelling is proposed outside a structural fire protection
 district, you cannot rely on emergency responders to meet the fire code fire flow
 requirements. Providing an NFPA sprinkler system is required to meet fire flow requirements
 unless a request for modification of the fire safety standards has been requested and
 approved.

 Dwellings in the Forest Zones and outside a structural fire protection district must
 provide a year round on site 4,000 gallon water source, or access to a stream or spring
 having continuous year round flow of at least 1 cubic foot per second
     e  The applicant must provide a written statement from Oregon Water Resources
         Department verifying that permits or registrations required for any water diversion or
        storage are obtained or not required
     e   Driveway access and a turnaround meeting the access standards in Section 10.140
         must be extended to within 10 feet of the water source.
     e   Permanent signs shall be posted directing emergency vehicles to approved water
             sources.

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                         f007-00%¢ CWS)
                                                                                                         Page 10-35

B.   If Yes Then                                                B.   If No Then

e    Provision of an NFPA sprinkler system does not             If   a NFPA    sprinkler system     is required
     rely on a responder’s presence to function and             but cannot be provided, a modification of
     can often extinguish a small ignition before it            fire safety standards must be requested.
     grows to the point where a large scale response            This is necessary because either no
     is necessary.                                              structural fire protection will be provided
e    Meeting     fire flow     requirements  for larger         by a recognized district or because the
     structures can require an on site water source             dwelling exceeds the size determined to
     of 8,000 Gallons or more (see alternatives to              be defensible by local responders.
     sprinkler system).                                         The fire mitigation plan submitted           with
e    Installation of a sprinkler system in site built           the    request   for  modification   must
     homes, particularly larger homes, is often the             include:
     most     affordable    way    to   meet  fire flow         On site water source capable of meeting
     requirements. Installation of an NFPA approved             fire code requirements for water supplies
     sprinkler system can: save a home owner a                  in rural settings. Requirements for rural
     significant amount on ‘their fire insurance rates          water    supplies   to  meet   fire flow
     and will pay for its self over time.                       requirements are generalized here.
                                                                e   Minimum on site water storage 2,000
NOTE:        Manufactured    homes      and _ historic               Gallons
structures may substitute on site water provision for           e     1,500-3,500 s f. 4,000 Gallons
inclusion of a residential sprinkler system when                e    >3,500-5,000 s.f. 8,000 Gallons
otherwise required.     The county recognizes the                    >5,000 s.f. 13,000 Gallons
disproportionately high cost of installation of NFPA
sprinkler systems in this type of structure and the             When on site water is provided to meet
limited    ability to alter design       of structures   when   fire flow requirements    within a_ fire
locating    a   historical   structure     or   manufactured    protection district the on site source
home.      Applicants    locating   a Manufactured       Home   must be made accessible to responders.
or historic structure on their property may elect to
install an on site water source meeting the on site             When on site water is provided to meet
water requirements listed.in this sub section.    No            fire flow requirements outside a fire
request for modification needs to be made for these             protection district, then the fire mitigation
structures.                                                     plan shall include provisions by the
                                                                home owner for applying the water to
                                                                the structure in the event of a fire.

                                                                                  - 401 ble (us)
                                                                                   Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
Page 10-36

Section 10.210         Fire Safety Standard Review Process

A. Compliance with applicable fire safety standards is required by ordinance for new,
   replacement, and modified structures in all rural zones.

    1.   Fire   standards          shall   be   made   a part of the   conditions   of approval        when
         conditional use permit, site plan or subject to standards review,                         partition,
         subdivision or other land use action is required prior to construction.

    2.   Structures or alterations to structures that are subject to ministerial review must
         also comply with all applicable fire standards prior to receiving zoning approval
         on a building permit application.

    3.   In all cases compliance with applicable fire standards shall be self certified prior
         to receiving zoning approval on a building permit.

B. Continued compliance with fire safety standards is required.

    1.   Responsibility of the land owner.

    2.   Required      compliance with fire safety standards shall be disclosed to future land
         owners prior to sale of any parcel. Where fire safety standards are applied
         through land use review as conditions of approval, the conditions of approval
         shall be recorded along with the notice of decision. Where fire safety standards
         are self certified prior to receiving zoning approval for a ministerial review of a
         building permit application, the self certification shall be                  recorded     prior   to
         receiving zoning approval on the building permit application.

C. An illustrative checklist will be provided to land use permit applicants and building
   permit applicants that explains all necessary steps to comply with applicable fire
   safety standards. If applicable fire safety standards are or will be complied with the
   applicant shall self certify their compliance and record a statement of self
    certification in the county records prior to receiving zoning approval on a building
    permit application. If one or more applicable fire safety standards cannot be met the
    applicant may request a modification of standards. The requested modification must
    be approved and the terms of the approval recorded in the county records prior to
    receiving zoning approval on a building permit application.

Section 10.520 Modification of Fire Safety Standards
if one or more fire safety standard cannot be met, the                     applicant     must     request    a
modification to fire safety standards. The request for modification shall include a site
specific fire safety mitigation plan. The modification of standards review shall be
processed in accordance with the procedures in LUDO Section 2.060(A)(6). Notice
prior to the decision shall be provided to commenting responders by the Planning

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards                                           L007           (OOK. G           (és)
                                                                                                   Page 10-37

Director. The decision to approve              or deny the request for modification shall meet all
public notice requirements.

Section 10.230        Fire Safety Mitigation Plan
A fire safety mitigation plan is required when an applicant needs to request a
modification to one or more fire safety standards listed on the self certification check list.
A fire safety mitigation plan is also required for any land division creating lots that can
accommodate dwellings,

A.   Contents of_a fire mitigation plan include one or more maps and accompanying
     narrative statement addressing the following:
     1. Site description
     2. Documentation of fire protection service or proposed plan for on site fire
         protection
     3. Documentation of on-site water supply where required
     4. Driveway construction plan including gate features, size and locations of bridges
          or culverts and proposed signage
     5.   Documentation of fuel break areas if land on adjoining properties is relied on to
          meet fuel break requirements
     6.   Public   or private   road   plans    for new   roads   to serve   proposed     land    divisions
          (including location, size, and type of bridges and culverts)
     7.   Other information deemed        necessary to allow adequate review of the request for
          modification

B. Statement of need
   A clear statement of why the fire safety standards cannot feasibly be met.

C.   Risk Assessment
     An assessment of increased risk of wildfire damage if standard is modified. Risk
     assessments shall consider the purpose of the standard that cannot be met, the
     specific proposal, and site conditions to determine what, if any, additional exposure
     to wild land fire risks could be created by approval of the modification to fire safety
     standards. The consideration shall include increased risk of the proposed structure
     becoming a source of ignition and risks to the proposed structure from a wild land
     fire ignited elsewhere and traveling through the site.

D. Statement of Additional Action Proposed to Eliminate or Minimize Increased Risks
   A clear list of additional measures proposed by the applicant to address any
   increased risks identified in the risk assessment.

                                                                             faa                 00
                                                                             Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                                                                ts)
Page 10-33

Section 10.240         Review of Requested Modification(s)

A.   Planning Director Shall Seek Review

     1.   The  Planning  Director shall request and    consider the comments     and
          recommendations of local emergency responders, including ODF and the State
          Fire Marshal's Office when making the final decision on a request for modification
          of fire safety standards. The complete fire safety mitigation plan shall be
          forwarded to all commenting responders including the deputy state fire marshal.

     2.   Comments        and      recommendations       by local responders shall be provided to the
          Planning Director within 15 days.

B.   Responses to the Director's Request for Review

     1.   Responders’ comments and recommendations shall do one of the following:

          a. Support the modification with mitigation measures proposed by the applicant.

          b. Support        the    modification   with   a recommendation     for altermate   mitigation
               measures detailed by the responders.

          c.   Accept the request for modification conditionally though minimum standards
               cannot be met. This will be done only when the responder commenting on the
               request can not recommend feasible means to mitigate risks resulting from
               approval of the modification. Acceptance of a modification that cannot be
               fully mitigated or meet minimal standards will also include an assessment of
               any limitations of service that may accompany approval of the modification.

               E.g. an existing off site bridge is located along a private road accessing the
               applicant’s dwelling and many existing dwellings. The bridge is weight limited
               but cannot be feasibly upgraded for the one new home.        One or more
               responders may require that the weight limit of the existing bridge be
               determined and clearly posted and they may also elect to notify the current
               land owner and all other residents that larger responding vehicles will not
               respond to calls accessed by that bridge.

          d. Recommend denial of the requested modification(s) on the grounds that:

               (1)The proposed modification is not necessary because standards can and
                   should be met. Including consideration and selection of an alternative
                   location for the development.

               (2)Approval of the proposed modification will result in undue risk to life and
                  safety.

Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards
                                                                             L21007-L0LdS)
                                                                                         Page 10-39

. Comments    and  recommendations      from emergency       responders    shall be
  supported by reasons sufficient to allow the Planning Director to weigh the
  evidence and arguments prior to deciding to grant, conditionally grant, or deny a
  request for modification of fire safety standards.

. Approval or denial of a modification to standards is not subject to variance criteria
  in the LUDO.

. A modification of standards can be reviewed and decided in conjunction with
  another land use decision where other land use permits are required.

. Approval of a modification of standards is subject to administrative review, public
  notice and   the opportunity for further review on       appeal    under     LUDO      Section
  2.160.

. All self certifications may be verified by staff site visits at any time.

                                                                             d
                                                                    Lic07-Lures)
                                                                    Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards