FILED
                                                                   WASCO COUNTY

                                                                  209 JUN 18 P 214

                                                                KARE LEBRETON COATS
                                                                nh COUNTY CLERK

                      IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                             IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO

     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY PLANNING
     AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT'S REQUEST TO
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED POST-
     ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LEGISLATIVE AMENDMENTS
     TO CHAPTER 13, NONCONFORMING USES                      ORDINANCE
     BUILDINGS AND LOTS AND RELATED SECTIONS AND            No. 09-005
     CHAPTERS OF THE WASCO COUNTY LAND USE AND
     DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE. (FILE NUMBER
     PLALEG-08-08-0001)

            NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

     consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business

     and a majority of the Court being present; and

            IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:          That the Wasco County Planning Department

     has requested a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments

     to Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and

     chapters of the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance; and pursuant to

     Measure 56, Wasco County sent notification to all affected landowners on September 2,

10   2008; and

     Page 1 ~ ORDER
                                                         fapor- 01% (78)
             IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:           That on August 5, 2008, the Wasco County

      Planning Department held a legally notified public workshop with the Wasco County

      Planning Commission and the Wasco County Court, at the Gorge Discovery Center, to

      review back ground information and options for staff recommendations for the purpose

      of identifying preferred options and any potential needs for additional information prior to

      hearing; and

             IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:               That on September 2, 2008, the

      Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct a legally notified public hearing on

      the above matter.   Following receipt and review of evidence, the Commission

10    deliberated and, on a vote of 5 to 0 (2 Commissioners Absent) voted to elevate the

11°   request for a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments to

12    Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and chapters

13    of the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance with a recommendation of

14    approval; and

15           IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:               That the Wasco County Court met

16    at the hour of 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday, October 15, 2008, in the Wasco County

17    Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, in The Dalles, Oregon, for a

18    legally notified review of the Wasco County Planning Department's request for a Post-

19    Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments to the Chapter 13,

20    Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and chapters of the Wasco

21    County Land Use and Development Ordinance.         The Court reviewed the record, heard

22    the Staff recommendation and all relevant testimony from the parties, then voted 3 - 0 to

23    approve the recommendation by the Wasco County Planning Commission to amend

      Page 2 - ORDINANCE

                                                              E700 0d ~OCD
     Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and chapters

     of the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance with additional

     amendments recommended by staff and made by the County Court, as laid out in

     Attachment A, at the next scheduled County Court meeting, 29 October 2008; and

            IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:             That on 19 November 2008 Mr.

     Ken Thomas filed a notice of intent to appeal the decision of the Wasco County Court

     to amend Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and

     Chapters of the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance to the Oregon

     Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA).

10          IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:             That on 5 February 2009 LUBA

11   held a hearing and sustained in part the single assignment of error which was the basis

12   for appeal by Mr. Ken Thomas and remanded the decision back to Wasco County for

13   additional review.

14          IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:             That the Wasco County Court met

45   at the hour of 11:00 a.m. on Wednesday, June 3, 2009, in the Wasco County

16   Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, in The Dalles, Oregon, for a

17   legally notified remand review of the Wasco County Pianning Department's request for

18   a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for legislative amendments to the Chapter

19   13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and chapters of the

20   Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance.        The Court reviewed the record,

21   heard the Staff recommendation and all relevant testimony from the parties, then voted

22   3-0 to approve the recommendation by the Wasco Courity Planning Director to amend

23   Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and related sections and chapters

     Page 3 - ORDINANCE

                                                              broe-02ayo(
of the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance, as laid out in Attachment

A, at the next scheduled County Court meeting, 17 June 2009; and

        NOW THEREFORE       IT iS HEREBY ORDERED:        That the request by the Wasco

County Planning Department for a Post-Acknowledgement Plan Amendment for

legislative amendments to Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses Building and Lots and

related sections and chapters of the Wasco County Land Use and Development

Ordinance is approved.

        SIGNED this 17th day of June, 2009.

Approved as to Form:

    *                                         Dan Ericks€én,     ge
Fric-d-Nisley                                  ak              Lal.
Wasco County District Attomey                  AK Ar yr © ede
                                              Sherry Holliday, Commissioner

                                                               re
                                              Bill Lennox, Commissioner   “-

Page 4 - ORDINANCE
                              ATTACHMENT A
                             PLALEG-08-08-0001

      Final Updated Versions of the Following Chapters of the
                 Land Use and Development Ordinance

Title Page:   This has been updated to reflect a new amendment date for the
ordinance.

Chapter 1: This is a summary version which includes only the proposed
amendments.

Chapter 2: This is a summary version which includes only the proposed
amendments.

Chapter 13: This includes all of the Chapter 13 amendments.

                                                       Jojo? 03/0 (i)
              WASCO COUNTY

LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE

                         ADOPTED
                         June, 1985

                         AMENDED
                         July, 1989
                       January, 1992
                         May, 1993
                      September, 1993
                       January, 1995
                         April, 1995
                      December, 1996
                      September, 1997
                         June, 1998
                      September, 1999
                     November 16, 1999
                      January 19, 2000
                      February 1, 2000
                      February 2, 2004
                      January 17, 2006
                     November 22, 2006
                      February 5, 2007
                         July 8, 2009

                    PREPARED BY THE
       Wasco County Planning and Development Office

                              STAFF
           Todd R. Cornett            Planning Director
            A. Gary Nychyk            Senior Planner
            Brenda Jenkins            Planning Coordinator
             Dawn M. Baird            Associate Planner
          Jeanette Montour            Associate Planner
            Benjamin Hoey             Planning Assistant
            Keith Cleveland           Code Compliance Officer

                                              £3009-0200)
                    CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

                                    (Summary Version)

SECTION 1.090       Definitions
For the purpose of this Ordinance, certain words and terms are defined as follows:
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number
include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular; the word "Building"
includes the word "Structure"; the word "Shall" is mandatory and not directory.

Floor Area - The sum of the horizontal areas of each floor of a building, measured
from the interior faces of the exterior walls.

Neighborhood - In relation to Nonconforming Uses a neighborhood shall include
the   surrounding   areas   whose    use   and   enjoyment   of their   property   would   be
materially impacted as a result of the proposed alteration.

                                                             /4097-b20()
                CHAPTER 2 DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES

                                     (Summary Version)

SECTION 2.060 Application
Application for development approval shall be made pursuant to applicable sections of this
Ordinance on forms provided by the Planning Director.

     9.   Nonconforming Use Verification, Restoration, or Alteration (Chapter 13)

SECTION 2.080       Notice

B.   Notice of Administrative Action for the use listed in Sections 2.060(A) (1) and (9),
     shall be given as prescribed by subsection (A) (1) — (7) of this Section, with the
     exception that notice be given at least ten (10) days prior to a decision. (Revised
     1-92, 5-93, 9-99))

SECTION 2.100       Administrative Action Procedure of the Director

A.   After accepting an application for Administrative Action pursuant to Section 2.060(A) (1)
     - (9) of this Ordinance, the Director shall act on or cause a hearing to be held on the
     application within the time requirements of O.R.S. 215.428(1). (Revised 2-89, 5-93)

SECTION 2.120 Notice of a Decision by the Director

A.   Notice of a decision by the Director pursuant to Section 2.060 (A) (1) - (9) shall be filed
     in the records of the Director and also mailed to the applicant, the owner(s) or contract
     purchasers of the subject property, and all parties within the required notification areas,
     as described by Section 2.080. (Revised 1-92)

C.   The decision of the Director pursuant to Section 2.060 (A)(1) - (9) shall be final unless
     an appeal from an aggrieved person is received by the Director within ten (10) days
     after the filing of a decision on an Administrative Action or unless the Commission or
     County Court on its own motion, orders review within ten (10) days after the filing of the
     proposed decision. (revised 2-89, 5-93, 9-99)

                                                              J1009-0ay0 UO)
                     DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS
          CHAPTER 13 NONCONFORMING     USES, BUILDINGS AND LOTS

SECTION    TITLE                                                           PAGE

13.010     PURPOSE                                                         13-1
13.020     CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING           USE                     13-1
13.030     CONVEYANCE OF NONCONFORMING           USE                       13-1
13.040     CONSTRUCTION ON AND CONVEYANCE OF                               13-1
           NONCONFORMING LEGAL PARCELS
13.050     VERIFICATION OF NONCONFORMING         USE OR                   13-2
           STRUCTURE
13.060     RESTORATION OR ALTERATION OF                                   13-4
           NONCONFORMING USE
13.070     VESTED RIGHTS                                                  13-8
13.080     CONSOLIDATION OF UNDEVELOPED         SUBDIVISONS               13-8

                                           L3009-D2¢0o( 1)
                                     Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
                                                                            July 8, 2009
S2007-04 Yot/§. )
                                                                                                Page 13-1

           CHAPTER 13      NONCONFORMING          USES, BUILDINGS AND LOTS

SECTION 13.010 Purpose
It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of this Ordinance that all uses and
structures incompatible with permitted uses or structures in each zone be strictly
regulated and permitted to exist only under rigid controls. The purpose of such regulation
and control is to discontinue a nonconforming use or structure, change a nonconforming
use or structure to a conforming status, or allow alterations to a nonconforming use or
structure that do not increase the level of adverse impact on the neighborhood, or are
required for the use or structure to comply with state or local health or safety
requirements.

SECTION 13.020 Continuation of Nonconforming Use
Except as is hereinafter provided in this Ordinance, the lawful use of a building or
structure or of any land or premises lawfully existing at the time of the effective date of
this Ordinance or at the time of a change in the official zoning maps may be continued,
although such use does not conform with the provisions of this Ordinance. Alterations to
nonconforming structures may only be made consistent with Section 13.060.

SECTION 13.030 Conveyance of Nonconforming Use
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to limit the sale, transfer, or conveyance of
property on which exists a nonconforming building, structure or use, so long as such sale,
transfer, or other conveyance does not otherwise violate the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION    13.040   Construction on and Conveyance of Nonconforming Legal
                    Parcels
Nothing in this Ordinance shall be deemed to prohibit construction or reconstruction of
conforming uses or structures on nonconforming legal parcels or limit the sale, transfer or
conveyance of said legal parcels, so long as the construction, reconstruction, sale,
transfer or conveyance is consistent with all applicable provisions of this ordinance.

SECTION 13.050      Verification of Nonconforming Use
Must meet lawfully established and discontinuance or abandonment criteria below.

A. Lawfully Established: For a nonconforming use to be verified as lawfully established it
   shail be consistent with all of the following:

   1.   The nonconforming use has not been expanded in size or area or changed                         in
        purpose or use beyond what was lawfully established;

                                                          /3007 -O2pol/t)
                                                     Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
                                                                                             July 8, 2009
Page 13-2

     2.     The property on which the nonconforming              use is located      meets the definition of
            legal parcel in Chapter 1 of this ordinance;

     3.     The nonconforming use was lawfully established on or before the effective date of
            the provisions of this ordinance prohibiting the use verified by either a or b below.
            No   unlawful   use   of property    existing   at the time    of the effective      date   of the
            provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed a noncoriforming use.

            a. Type    _| Verification:     Lawfully    established   is verified     by    nomn-discretionary
                 evidence including but not limited to zoning approval or County Assessor
                 records verifying the date of establishment.  This type of verification is not
                 subject to any review process because it does not involve the exercise of any
                 discretion or judgment. If the applicant wishes documentation of this it shall be
                 done as a Land Use Verification Letter.

            b. Type Il Verification: Lacking non-discretionary evidence, lawfully established is
               verified by a discretionary process consistent with Section 2.060(A)(9).

                 It is the burden of the applicant to provide a preponderance of evidence which
                 will allow the Planning Director to conclude the nonconforming use was lawfully
                 established. Such evidence includes but is not limited to:

                    -Utility Bills and Records (phone, power, sewer, water)
                    -Aerial Photographs
                    -Dated Photos
                    -Notarized Letters or Affidavits affirming the date of establishment

B.   Discontinuance or Abandonment: For a nonconforming use to be verified as lawfully
     established it must not have been discontinued or abandoned according to the
     following criteria. Based on the circumstances, the Director shall determine whether
     discontinuance or abandonment shall be reviewed as a Type | or Type Il process as
     described in A above.

     4.     The reference period for determining whether an abandonment or interruption of a
            nonconforming use or an aspect thereof has occurred shall be twelve (12)
            consecutive months in any of the ten (10) years preceding the date of the
            application.    Proof   of intent    to    abandon   is not   required     to   determine   that   a
            nonconforming use has been discontinued or abandoned.

     2.     An abandonment or interruption of a use may arise from the complete cessation of
            the actual use for a twelve (12) month period even if improvements to support the
            use remain in place.

Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots                                                                 ’)
July 8, 2008                                                          (DLOG-OPYO(                         MB
                                                                                                   Page 13-3

   3. An_interruption or abandonment for a twelve (12) month period that constitutes
        less than full cessation of the use or a portion thereof may result in a declaration of
        a continuing use, but of a lesser intensity or scope than what would have been
        allowable if the nature and extent of the use as of the date it became
        nonconforming had continued, even if improvements to support the full use remain
        in place.

   4.   A change in the nature of the use may result in a determination that the use has
        been abandoned or has ceased for a twelve (12) month period if there are no
        common elements between the activities of the previous use and the current use.

        Factors to be considered in determining whether there has been a change in the
        nature of a use shall include, but are not limited to, consideration of the type of
        activities being conducted, the operating characteristics of the activities associated
        with the use (including off-site impacts of those activities), changes in structures
        associated with the use and changes            in the     degree     to    which    the   activities
        associated with the use occupy the site.

   5. A surface mining use shall not be deemed to be interrupted or abandoned for any
        period after July 1, 1972, provided:

        a.   The owner or operator was issued and continuously renewed a state or local
             surface mining permit, or received and maintained a state or local exemption
             from surface mining regulation; and

        b.   The surface mining use was not inactive for a period of 12 consecutive years or
             more.    For purposes of this subsection, “inactive” means no aggregate
             materials were excavated, crushed, removed, stockpiled or sold by the owner
             or operator of the surface mine.

SECTION      13.060   Restoration or Alteration of Nonconforming Use
Restoration or alteration of a nonconforming use or structure shall be reviewed according
to Section    2.060(A)(9)   and   limited to the applicable     criteria   below    and    Verification of
Nonconforming Use in Section 13.050 above.           Any other restorations or alterations shall
conform to all of the criteria of this ordinance.

Maintenance,     repair, alteration, restoration or replacement of a lawfully implemented                 or
established dwelling in the Exclusive Farm Use or Forest Zone shall be governed by
those zones and not be subject to the alteration language in Chapter 13. However, these
dwellings will be subject to a Chapter 6 or 7 Variance Review if they cannot meet all of the
provisions of the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance, and must
comply with all current health and safety ordinances including but not limited to Geologic
Hazard Overlay (Section 3.750) Fire Safety Standards (Chapter 10) and Flood Darnage

                                                        (10097 Loo C8
                                                       Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings a
                                                                                               duly 8, 2008
Page 13-4

Prevention (Chapter 22).

A.   Restoration or Replacement of a Nonconforming Structure Destroyed  by Fire, Other
     Casualty or Disaster:   If a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a
     nonconforming use is destroyed by fire, other casualty or natural disaster, restoration
     or replacement shall be permitted subject to the following criteria:

     1. Time Limitation: An application is received within twelve (12) months from the
        occurrence of the fire, casualty or natural disaster. The application shall include
        official documentation establishing the date of the fire, casualty, or natural disaster.
        If an application is not received within twelve (12) months from the occurrence, the
            nonconforming use shall be considered discontinued.

     2.     Size: The restoration of a nonconforming building or structure may not increase
            the floor area or create a greater nonconformance than existed at the time of
            damage        or destruction.       Any changes      in height, additions of attics basements,
            decks    or elements      that were      not    part of the original structure     beyond   what   is
            necessary to comply with current building code or building industry standards shall
            be considered an alteration.

     3.     Location:       The   restoration    shall     be sited on the same    footprint   as the original
            structure.     However, if the applicant wishes to change the location to better comply
            with current setback, buffer or health and safety standards, the restoration will be
            allowed to be relocated the minimum distance necessary to achieve this goal. Any
            relocation beyond the minimum distance necessary shall be considered an
            alteration.

     4.     Health & Safety:        The     restoration shall comply with all current health and safety
            ordinances including but not limited to Geologic Hazard Overlay (Section 3.750)
            Fire Safety Standards (Chapter 10) and Flood Damage Prevention (Chapter 22).

B. Alteration of a nonconforming use to Comply with State or Local Health or Safety
   Requirements: No conditions shall be placed upon the continuation or alteration of a
     nonconforming           use when       necessary to comply with state or local health or safety
     requirements, or to maintain in good repair the existing structures associated with
     the use.

     Proof of compliance with health or safety requirements or the necessity to maintain
     in good repair existing structures associated with the use shall be submitted with the
     application.

C. Alteration of a nonconforming use including but not limited to any combination of the
   following:

Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
July 8, 2009                                                             S      009-0           2   vl         16)
                                                                                           Page 13-5

-Replacing a structure not damaged or destroyed by fire, other casualty or disaster;

-Expanding a structure beyond its current size;

-Relocating a structure to a different location on the same legal parcel;

1. Alteration will resuit_in_ no greater adverse impact on the neighborhood or shall
   result in less of an adverse impact on the neighborhood            considering the criteria
   listed below.

   a.   Residential Uses Only

        (1) The nonconforming use is in compliance with all conditions or limitations
            associated with its creation or approval;

        (2) The comparative visual appearance between the existing nonconforming
           use and the proposed alteration;

        (3) The alteration shall not change the manner or purpose of the use;

        (4) The proposed alteration shall not result in greater nonconformity to property
           line setbacks or resource buffer requirements unless the alteration will
           extend a structure further away from and perpendicular to the property line
           or resource. Any proposal that would extend an existing structure further
           toward the property line or resource, or expand an existing structure parallel
           into a setback or buffer shall also be subject to Chapters 6 & 7, Variances
           and any other applicable review criteria;

        (5) Relocation   shall result in conformity with ail property line setbacks and
           resource buffer requirements unless there is no other location on the
           property that could comply with all setback and buffer requirements and the
           relocation would remove the structure from an undesirable location
           according to the Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
           such as a water buffer or floodplain. If the relocation cannot conform to all
           setback and buffer requirements the application shall also be subject to
           Chapters 6 & 7, Variances and any other applicable review criteria;

        (6) The alteration must be consistent with Health and Safety Regulations
            including but not limited to Geologic Hazard Overlay (Section 3.750) Fire
            Safety Standards (Chapter 10) and Flood Damage Prevention (Chapter 22);

        (7) Other factors which impact the character or needs of the neighborhood;

                                                           f1909-Layol 18 ,)
                                                  Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
                                                                                         July 8, 2009
Page 13-6

            b.   Non-Residential Nonconforming Uses Only

                 (1) Criteria (1) — (7) in subsection a. above;

                 (2) The alteration will result in an overall reduction in adverse impacts to the
                     neighborhood. Each application for alteration will include an analysis of the
                    current adverse impacts to the neighborhood utilizing a — b below, and how
                    the alteration reduces the total of the adverse impacts. An increase in one
                    individual adverse impact may be offset by reductions in others as to effect
                    a total reduction in adverse impacts;

                    (a) An evaluation of the character and history of the use, its relationship to
                        development in the neighborhood and how the alteration would affect
                        this;

                    (b) The comparable degree of noise, light, vibration, dust, odor, fumes,
                        glare or smoke detectable within the neighborhood between the
                        existing nonconforming use and the proposed alteration;

                    (c) The comparative        impact to public facilities and services including but
                        not limited to: roads, fire and police protection, sewer and water
                        facilities, telephone and electrical service, or solid waste disposal
                        facilities between     the existing        nonconforming     use   and   the proposed
                        alteration;

                    (d) The comparative amount and nature of outside storage, loading and
                        parking between the existing nonconforming use and the proposed
                        alteration;

                    (e) The      comparative         hours    of     operation      between      the   existing
                        nonconforming use and the proposed alteration;

                    (f} The     comparative    effect on     identified   natural   resources    between    the
                        existing nonconforming use and the proposed alteration; and

                    (g) The comparative effect on water quality, quantity or drainage in the
                        neighborhood between the existing nonconforming use and the
                        proposed alteration.

    2.      The Planning Director may impose conditions of approval on any alteration of a
            nonconforming use, structure(s) or other physical improvements permitted under
            this section when deemed necessary to ensure the mitigation of any adverse
            impacts. Such conditions could include but are not limited to:

Chapter 43, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots                        42 To) O         F_ Q WAL (6) Li. /, gv)
                                                                                                  Page 13-7

       a.   Special yards and spaces.

       b. Fences and wails.

       c.   Special parking and/or loading provisions.

       d.   Street dedication and improvements.

       e.   Control of points of vehicular ingress and egress.

       f.   Special provisions for signs.

       g.   Landscaping and maintenance of grounds.

       h.   Control of noise, light, vibration, dust, odor,       fumes,     glare, smoke,       or other
            similar nuisances.

       i.   Limitation of time for certain activities.

      j.    A time period in which a proposed use shall be developed.

       k. A limit of total duration of use.

SECTION 13.070       Vested Right
Pursuant to ORS      215.427,   if an application was complete when            first submitted or the
applicant submits additional information, as described in ORS                215.427(2), within 180
days of the date the application was first submitted, approval or denial of the application
shall be based upon the standards and criteria that were applicable at the time the
application was first submitted.

SECTION     13.080   Consolidation of Undeveloped Subdivisions

A. A unit of land shall be consolidated with adjacent lands in the same ownership if the
   subdivision within which the unit of land is located is undeveloped pursuant to ORS
   chapter 92, Undeveloped Subdivisions.

B. No portion of a consolidated plat shall be considered a separate parcel solely
   because an existing property overlays, and possibly fragments, that consolidated
   subdivision.

C. Criterion A shall not be applied to consolidate two or more units of land where each
   unit of land is developed with a dwelling that qualifies as an existing use. One or

                                                                (e210
                                                                    09- cao /t)
                                                         Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
                                                                                                July 8, 2009
Page 13-8

     more undeveloped         units of land shall be consolidated with one or more developed
     units of land.

D.   Lots shall be consolidated through the process outlined in ORS Chapter 92,
     Undeveloped Subdivisions, or through a Replat process as outlined in Chapter 21.

Chapter 13, Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots         L3t04-           DLYO        “sD
July 8, 2009