ORDINANCE 19-002

NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for consideration, said day being one duly
set in term for the transaction of public business and a majority of the Board of Commissioners  being present; and
WHEREAS, Oregon Revised Statutes and Oregon Administrative Rules allow  counties and municipalities to apply for
the delegation and assumption of building inspection, special codes, and electrical programs; and
WHEREAS, Wasco County has established a building code service and enforcement department, which shall be
under the administrative and operational control of the Board of County Commissioners, and Wasco County is
required, by the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes and Oregon Administrative Rules Chapter 918, to adopt an
ordinance for administration and enforcement of the building code program;
NOW, THEREFORE, THE WASCO COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS HEREBY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Adoption of Oregon Building Code.
a. Under authority of ORS 190.030 and ORS 203.045, Wasco County hereby adopts the Oregon Building
Code as set forth in ORS Chapter 455 and OAR Chapter 918 as the same may be amended from time-to-
time by the State legislature and by State agencies.
b. The Wasco County Building Code enforcement jurisdiction shall apply to all areas within Wasco County's
jurisdiction and within the  limits of all cities therein, and the areas of any other counties or cities that
have entered into intergovernmental agreements with Wasco County.
c. The adoption of the Building Code includes the following Oregon Specialty Codes, the Administrative
Rules, and Standards, which are hereby adopted and incorporated herein as though fully set forth here  at:
(1) The Oregon Structural Specialty Code, as adopted by and together with OAR Chapter 918,
Division 460.
(2) The Oregon Mechanical Specialty Code, as adopted by and  together with OAR Chapter 918,
Division 440.
IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON
IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO
AN ORDINANCE CONTINUING THE ASSUMPTION OF ADMINISTRATION OF THE BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM,
AND SETTING FORTH PROGRAMS FOR THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE OREGON BUILDING CODES, INCLUDING THE
OREGON SPECIALTY CODES, ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING
ORDINANCE 19-002
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 2 of 10
(3) The Oregon Plumbing Specialty Code, as adopted by and together with OAR Chapter 918,
Division 750 through Division 780.
(4) The Oregon Residential Specialty Code, as adopted by and together with OAR Chapter 918,
Division 480.
(5) The Manufactured Dwelling Installation Rules, as adopted by  and together with OAR Chapter
918, Division 500 through Division 520, including the Oregon Manufactured Dwelling Standard.
(6) The Oregon Electrical Specialty Code, as adopted by and together with OAR Chapter 918,
Divisions 305 & 309.
(7) The sections, appendices, or provisions of the Oregon Fire Code, as specifically referenced
from the State Building Code.
(8) The Oregon Recreation Parks and Organizational Camps rules, OAR Chapter 918, Division 650.
Section 2. Wasco County Building Codes Services.
Wasco County has created a building code services division, which shall be known as Wasco County Building Codes
Services, and this division shall include officials, inspectors, and plans examiners who are qualified and licensed to
act in that capacity to enforce provisions of the code and to render written and oral interpretations of the code to
clarify the application of its provisions.
Section 3. Definitions.
For purposes of the Building Code, the following definitions shall apply:
a. Building Inspector. Representatives of the Building Official appointed as employees of Wasco County
Building Codes Services to administer the provisions of this ordinance and the Building Code.
b. Building Official. The head official in charge of Wasco County Building Codes Services and direct
supervisor of the Building Inspectors.
c. Board of Directors. The Wasco County Board of Commissioners.
d. Administrative Officer. The Chief Administrative Officer for the County and direct supervisor of the
Building Official.
Section 4. Fees
a. Fees for permits, inspections, re-inspection, plan checks, site plan review, copy costs, and other fees
deemed reasonable in order to administer the Building Code shall be set and adopted f rom time-to-time
by Resolution of the Wasco County Board of Commissioners and in accordance with OAR Chapter 918-
020.
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 3 of 10
b. The Building Official shall have authority to refund fees in accordance with any refund policy set by the
Wasco County Board of Commissioners.
c. Determination of value or valuation under any provisions of the Building Code shall be made by the
Building Official. The value used in computing building permit and plan review fees shall be the total value
of all construction work for the project for which the permit is issued, including all finish work, painting,
roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators, fire extinguishing systems, and any other
permanent equipment.
Section 5 General Powers and Duties of the Building Official
a. The Building Official is authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of the Building Code and this
Ordinance.
b. The Building Official shall have the power to render written and oral interpretations of the Building Code
and shall adopt and enforce administrative procedures in order to cla rify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent and purpose of the
Building Code.
c. The Building Official may appoint deputies and other employees to carry out functions of Wasco County
Building Codes Services with the approval of the Administrative Officer. References to the Building Official
shall include the Building Officials appointed deputies and other employees of the agency.
Section 6. Right of Entry
When the Building Official deems it desirable or necessary to make an inspection to enforce the
provisions of the Building Code, or when the Building Official has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation of the Building Code,
or which otherwise makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous, the Building Official
may enter the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties  imposed by
the Building Code; provided that if such building or premises be occupied that  credentials be presented to
the occupant and entry requested. If such building or premises be - unoccupied, the Building Official shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the building
or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
Section 7. Stop Work Orders.
Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of the Building Code, or other pertinent laws
or ordinances implemented through the enforcement of the Building Code, the Building Official may order
the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work
to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building Official
to proceed with work.

WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 4 of 10

Section 8. Authority to Disconnect Utilities in Emergencies.
The Building Official shall have the authority to disconnect fuel-gas utility service, or energy supplies to a
building, structure, premises or equipment regulated by the Building Code, in case of emergency  when
necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property. The Building Official shall, whenever
possible, notify the serving utility, the owner and occupant of the building, structure or  premises of the
decision to disconnect prior to taking such action, and shall notify such serving  utility, owner and
occupant of the building, structure or premises, in writing, of such disconnection immediately thereafter.
Section 9. Connection After Order to Disconnect.
Persons shall not make connections from an energy, fuel or power supply, nor supply energy or fuel to
any equipment, regulated by the Building Code, which has been disconnected or ordered to be
disconnected by the Building Official, or the use of which has been ordered to be discontinued by the
Building Official, until the Building Official authorizes the reconnection and use of such equipment.
Section 10. Occupancy Violations.
Whenever any building or structure or equipment therein, regulated by the Building Code, is being used
contrary to the provision of the Building code, the Building Official may order such use discontinued and
the structure or portion thereof vacated, by notice served on any person causing such use to be
discontinued. Such person shall discontinue the use within the time prescribed by the Building Official
after receipt of such notice to make the structure or portion thereof comply with the requirements of the
Building Code.
Section 11. Local Appeals Process
a. Any appeal of an inspector decision shall be reviewed by the Building Official. The appeal may be oral or in
writing. There is no cost for this initial appeal and a decision shall normally be rendered within forty eight
(48) hours of the receipt of the appeal.
b. Any person aggrieved by the final decision of the Building Official may file an appeal with the State
Building Codes Division, in accordance with their statutes and rules.
Section 12. Plans and Permits
a. Except as otherwise provided by law, no building or structure regulated by the Building Code shall be
erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, or converted unles s a separate
permit for each building or structure has first been obtained from the Building Official.
b. The application, plans, specifications, computations and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall
be reviewed by the Building Official. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of this jurisdiction
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 5 of 10
to verify compliance with any applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the Building Official finds that the
work described in application for a permit and the plans, specifications and othe r data filed therewith
conform to the requirements of the Building Code and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the
fees have been paid, the Building Official shall issue a permit therefor to the applicant.
c. When the Building Official issues the permit where plans are required, the Building Official shall endorse,
in writing, or stamp the plans and specifications. Such approved plans and specifications shall not be
changed, modified and altered without authorization from the Building Official, and  all work regulated by
the Building Code shall be done in accordance with the approved plans.
d. The Building Official may issue a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure before the
entire plans and specifications for the whole building or structure have been submitted or approved;
provided adequate information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all pertinent
requirements of the Building Code. The holder of a partial permit shall proceed without assurance that
the permit for the entire building or structure will be granted.
Section 13. Retention of Plans
One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be retained by the Building Official for
the period of time as required by Oregon laws, OAR Chapter 166, from the date of completion of the work
covered therein, and one set of approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant, and
the returned set shall be kept on the site of the building or work at all times during which the work
authorized thereby is in progress. Retention of all records shall be as set forth in Oregon laws under OAR
166-150-0020 and as the same is from time-to-time amended.
Section 14. Validity of Permit
a. No permit shall be issued if the parcel of land or the use of the land on which the building, structure, or
equipment is to be placed, erected, altered, equipped, or used, is in violation of any city or county
ordinance or code.
b. The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans, specifications, and computati ons shall not be
construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of the Building Code,
or of any other city or county ordinance or code. Permits presuming to give authority to violate or cancel
the provisions of the Building Code or other city or county ordinance or code shall not be valid.
c. The issuance of a permit based on plans, specifications and other data shall not prevent the Building
Official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in the plans, spec ifications and other data, or
from preventing building operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of the Building Code or
any city or county ordinance or code.
Section 15. Expiration of Applications, Plans and Permits
Expiration and refunds shall be in accordance with policy set by the Building Official and approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 6 of 10

Section 16. Work Without Permit; Investigation Fees
a. Whenever any work for which a permit is required by the Building Code, including all sp ecialties, had been
commenced without first obtaining said permit, a special investigation shall be made before a permit may
be issued for such work.
b. An investigation fee, in addition to the permit fee, may be collected whether or not a permit is then or
subsequently issued. The payment of such investigation fee shall not exempt any person from compliance
with all other provisions of the Building Code nor from any penalty prescribed by law.
Section 17. Transfer of Permits
A permit issued to one person or fine levied may not be transferred to another, except when written
consent from the original permit holder and new transferee are provided and approved by the Building
Official, except that electrical permits are not transferable under any circumstances.
Section 18. Public Nuisance
The erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, installation, or use of any building,
structure, manufactured dwelling, or mobile home in violation of the Building Code shall be deemed a
nuisance and may be enjoined, abated or removed.
Section 19. Violation Enforcement
a. No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, move, improve, remove, convert or demolish, equip, use,
occupy or maintain a building structure or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of this
Ordinance or the State Building Code.
b. Violation of a provision of this Ordinance shall be subject to a Civil Penalty not exceeding $5,000,.00 for a
single violation or $1,000.00 per day for a continuing violation and shall be processed in accordance with
the procedures set forth in this Ordinance.
c. Each day that a violation of a provision of this Ordinance exists constitutes a separate violation.
d. The penalties and remedies provided in this Ordinance are not exclusive and are in addit ion to other
penalties and remedies available to Wasco County Building Code Services under other ordinance or law.
e. Any appeal filed to the Oregon Building Codes Division within thirty (30) days of the original notification of
violation shall stay these violation proceedings pending the date of final decision by the Division.
Section 20. Authority to Impose Administrative Civil Penalty
a.  In addition to and not in lieu of any other enforcement mechanism authorized  upon a determination of
the Building Official that a person has violated a provision of this ordinance or rule adopted thereunder,
the Building Official may impose upon the violator and/or any other responsible person an administrative
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 7 of 10
civil penalty as provided by this Ordinance. For purposes of this Ordinance, responsible person includes
the violator, and if the violator is not the owner of the building or property at which the violation occurs,
may include the owner as well.
b.  Prior to imposing an administrative civil penalty under this Ordinance, the Building Official shall pursue
reasonable attempts to secure voluntary correction, failing which the Building Official may issue a notice
of civil violation to one or more of the responsible persons to correct the violation. Except where th e
Building Official determines that the violation poses an immediate threat to  health, safety, environment,
or public welfare, the time for correction shall not be less than thirty (30) days from the date of initial
written notification.
c.  If the required correction has not been completed by the date or time specified in the order, the Building
Official may impose a civil penalty on each person to whom an order to correct was issued.
d.  Notwithstanding subsection b. above, the Building Official may impose a civil penalty, even if compliance
has been obtained, where the Building Official determines that the violation was done knowingly or
intentionally, or was a repeat of the same or similar violation.
e.  In imposing a penalty authorized by this Section, the Building Official shall consider:
1) The person's past history in taking all feasible steps or procedures necessary or appropriate to correct
the violation;
2) Any prior violations of statutes, rules, orders, and permits;
3) The gravity and magnitude of the violation;
4) Whether the violation was repeated or continuous;
5) Whether the cause of the violation was intentional or negligent.
f.  The notice of civil penalty shall include all information required by Oregon law. The notice served by mail
shall be deemed received for purpose of any time computations hereunder three (3) days after the date
mailed if to an address within this state, and seven (7) days after the date mailed if to an address outside
this state. The notice shall either be served by personal service or shall be sent by registered or certified
mail.
g.  A civil penalty imposed hereunder shall become final upon expiration of the time for filing an appeal,
unless the responsible person appeals the penalty to Wasco County pursuant to, and within the time
limits established. If the responsible person appeals the civil penalty, the penalty shall become final, or
deemed null and void upon final decision of the appointed Hearings Officer.
h.  Imposition of an administrative civil penalty does not relieve the requirement of code compliance or an
investigation fee. Each day the violator fails to remedy the code violation shall constitute a separate
violation that may result in additional civil penalties up to $1,000.00 per day.
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 8 of 10
i.  Failure to pay a penalty imposed hereunder within fifteen (15) days after the penalty becomes final, as
provided in subsection g., shall constitute a violation of this Ordinance. Each day the penalty is not paid
shall constitute a separate violation, with additional civil penalties up to $1,000 per day. The Building
Official also is authorized to collect the penalty by any administrative or judicial action or proceeding
authorized by including, but not limited to, a lien on the property as authorized by subsection j. below.
Any expenses incurred in collection will be added to the administrative penalty.
j.  If an administrative civil penalty remains unpaid thirty (30) days after such penalty becomes final, the
Building Official may assess the property the full amount of the unpaid fine and shall enter such an
assessment as a lien in the docket of liens for the county in which the real property is situated. At the time
such an assessment is made, the Building Official shall notify the responsible person that the penalty has
been assessed against the real property upon which the violation occurred and has been entered in the
docket of county liens. The lien shall be enforced in the same manner as liens established by law. The
interest shall commence from the date of entry of the lien in the lien docket.
k.  In addition to enforcement mechanisms authorized elsewhere in this Ordinance, failure to pay an
administrative civil penalty, imposed pursuant to subsection a. of this Section, sh all be grounds for
withholding issuance of requested permits, or revocation or suspension of other permits by the
responsible person on the same property.
Section 21. Appeal Procedures
a. Wasco County shall appoint one or more Hearings Officers or Panel, who may be any person other than
the Building Official, to hear any appeals to the Building Official's decision concerning administrative civil
penalties or permit suspensions.
b. A person aggrieved by an administrative action of the Building Official, taken pursuant to this Ordinance,
may, within fifteen (15) days after the date of notice of the action, appeal, in writing to the Hearings
Officer. The appeal shall be accompanied by a appeal fee as established by Wasco County and shall state:
The appeal shall be accompanied by an appeal fee as established by Wasco County through Resolution
and shall state:
1) The name and address of the appellant;
2) The nature of the determination being appealed;
3) The reason the determination is incorrect; and
4) What the correct determination of the appeal should be.
An appellant who fails to file such a statement within the time permitted waives the right to further
appeal or objection, and the administrative action shall become final upon the date specified in the
Notice. Except as provided in subsection f of this Section, the appeal fee is not refundable.
c.  If a notice of revocation of a permit is the subject of the appeal, the revocation  does not take effect until
final determination of the appeal. Notwithstanding this paragraph, an emergency suspension shall take
effect upon the time stated within the notice of suspension.
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 9 of 10
d.  Unless the appellant and Wasco County agree to a longer period, an appeal shall be heard by the
designated Hearings Officer within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the notice of intent to appeal. At least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing, Wasco County shall mail notice of the time and location thereof to the
appellant.
e.  The Hearings Officer shall hear and determine the appeal on the basis of the appellant's written
statement, any additional evidence deemed appropriate, the requirements of the State Building Code and
this Ordinance. At the hearing, the appellant may present testimony and oral agreement personally or by
counsel. The rules of evidence as used by the courts of law do not apply.
f.  The Hearings Officer shall issue a written decision within fifteen (15) days of the hearing date. The
decision of the Hearings Officer after the hearing is final, and may include a determination that the appeal
fee be refunded to the applicant upon a finding that the appeal was not frivolous.
Section 22.Effective Date
This Ordinance shall take effect on July 1, 2019 upon its adoption, and all previous orders, resolutions or
ordinances setting fees conflicting with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed and will be of no
further force and effect.
Regularly passed and adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the County of Wasco, State of Oregon, by a
____ to ____ vote on this 15th day of May, 2019.

DATED this 15th day of May, 2019.
APPROVED AS TO FORM:  WASCO COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
______________________________________
Brad Timmons, County Counsel
______________________________________
Steven D. Kramer, Commission Chair
 ______________________________________
Scott C. Hege, Vice-Chair
 ______________________________________
Kathleen B. Schwartz, County Commissioner
ATTESTED:
________________________________________
Kathy White, Executive Assistant
WASCO COUNTY       Ordinance 19-002  Page 10 of 10