FILED
                                                                                                    WASCO COUNTY
                            IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                                                                                                   2004 DEC ib A & 50
                                       IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO
                                                                                                           ON COATS
                                                                                              CAREN LEBRETCLER
                                                                                             ARE      OURTY    K
     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY                                      )
     PLANNING COMMISSION’S RECOMMENDATION TO                                )
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED ZONING TEXT AND MAP                               _)
     AMENDMENTS TO BRING WASCO COUNTY                                       )
     EXCEPTION AREA ZONING INTO COMPLIANCE                                  ) ORDINANCE
     WITH OREGON LAND USE GOAL 14. (FILE                                    )
     NUMBERS LUA-04-104 AND ZNC-04-103/REC-04-102)                          )

             NOW     ON THIS DAY, the above-entitied matter having come on regularly for consideration,

     said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business and a majority of the

     Court being present; and

             IT   APPEARING       TO    THE    COURT:          That    pursuant   to   the         Land   Conservation      and

     Development Commission Periodic Review Task Number #7 for Wasco County, Wasco County's

     Zoning Ordinances and Map are not consistent with State Land Use Goal 14 and are required to

     be   updated;   and   pursuant    to   Measure     56,    Wasco     County    sent      notification    to   all   affected

     landowners on October 12, 2004; and

10

11           IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:                        That on Friday, November 5, 2004, the

12   Wasco County Planning Commission postponed the hearing due to the lack of a quorum and

13   rescheduled the hearing for Tuesday, November 16, 2004; and

14

15           IT FURTHER       APPEARING        TO     THE     COMMISSION:         That on Tuesday,            November       16,

16   2004, the Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct a legally notified public hearing on

17   the above matter.     Following receipt and review of evidence, the Commission deliberated and, ona
     Ordinance #ORD-04-103 (Goal 14-LUA-04-104/ZNC-04-103/REC-04-102)

                                                                 SPgoot¢- 0 ¥32                                   (32)
     December 15, 2004
     vote of 5 to 0, voted to recommend approval of the request by the Wasco County Planning Office,

     for zoning text and map amendments to bring Wasco County's exception area into compliance with

     Goal 14 via Recommendation 04-102; and

                         IT FURTHER APPEARING              TO THE COURT:               That the Wasco County Planning

     Commission recommends, to the Wasco County Court, approval of the request for zoning text and

     map amendments to bring Wasco County's exception area into compliance with Oregon Land Use

     Goal      14; and

10               IT FURTHER      APPEARING       TO THE        COURT:       That the Wasco       County Court met at the

11   hour of 11:00 a.m. on Wednesday,             December       8, 2004,        in the Wasco   County Courtroom,      Room

12   202,      of the Wasco    County      Courthouse,    in The    Dalles,       Oregon,   to review   the Wasco     County

13   Planning Commission’s           Recommendation       to approve the request by the Wasco               County Planning

14   Office,     for zoning   text   and   map   amendments        to    bring    Wasco     County’s    exception   area   into

16   compliance with Oregon           Land Use Goal      14.   The members           of the Court were determined to be

16   qualified to hear the matter; and

7

18               IT FURTHER APPEARING            TO THE COURT:             That the Court reviewed the record, heard

19   the Staff recommendation and all relevant comments from the parties.                       The Court considered the

20   matter, and based upon the testimony presented, the Court, being fully apprised in the premises,

21   voted 3 to 0 to approve the request by the Wasco                   County Planning Department, for zoning text

22   and    map     amendments       to bring Wasco      County’s exception          area into compliance       with Oregon
23   Land Use Goal 14, as laid out in Attachment A; and

24

     Ordinance #ORD-04-103 (Goal 14-LUA-04-104/ZNC-04-103/REC-04-1 02)

     December 15, 2004

                                                                   Loc                - 0132 (32.)
  1              NOW THEREFORE      IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:             That the request by the Wasco County

  2   ‘Planning Office, for zoning text and map amendments       to bring Wasco        County's exception area

  3   into compliance with Oregon Land Use Goal 14 is approved.

  4
  5              SIGNED this 15th day of December, 2004
  6
  7                                                          WASCE27       COUN        OURT
  8                                                                    !           ;        ,]
  9                                                                  Qu      As [oy              a
10                                                           Dan Ericksen\ Judge”
11.   Approved as to Form:                                                                 VA
12           ;                                                                                    Myf,aff 4
13      L.             ‘                                          {               mi

154&                                                                  40)ONY Ac lidLO
16    EricJ. Nisley                                          Sherry Holliday, Commissioner           \
17    Wasco County District Attorney

      P:\County Court\Order\2004\Ordinance Goal 14 update.doc

      Ordinance #ORD-04-103 (Goal 14-LUA-04-104/ZNC-04-103/REC-04-102)

                                                                      Pnovf-0 432. C32)
      December 15, 2004
                                                                            exhibit “A-|"

RECOMMENDED                   FINDINGS
Findings to support Planning Commission Recommendation to County Court for
adoption of ordinance and comprehensive plan & zoning map amendments required
under periodic review to implement Goal 14

 Wasco County                                                                Page 1 of 14
 Recommended Findings
 Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review

                                                       P4004 0432 C32.)
RECOMMENDED            FINDINGS

Findings to support adoption of Ordinance Language necessary to ensure rural uses are
permitted outside Urban Growth Boundaries and Unincorporated Communities

Purpose
The purpose of these findings is to support recommendation by the Planning Commission
and adoption by the County Court of amendments to the County’s Land Use and
Development Ordinance (LUDO) necessary to: 1) bring rural residential zones into
compliance with Division 4 language implementing Goal 14; 2) bring rural industrial
zoning into compliance with precepts of the Curry County case using unincorporated
community limits on permissible industrial uses as a guideline for limitations on rural
industrial uses outside an unincorporated community boundary; 3) bring rural
commercial zoning into compliance with precepts of the Curry County case using
unincorporated community limits on permissible commercial uses as a guideline for
limitations on rural commercial uses outside an unincorporated community boundary; 4)
bring the AR zone into compliance with Division 4 and precepts of the Curry County
case related to commercial uses allowed in the zone; and 5) amend the zoning and
comprehensive plan map as necessary to implement the new zones effectively.

Procedural Background
Goal 14 ordinance amendments were originally presented in October 2004. The concept
of simplification of land use zoning combined with the explicit application of limits to
ensure that permissible development is allowed to occur only to an extent that is rural in
nature was presented to Planning Commission and County Court members along with
members of the public. Comments were received and requests for information taken.
Recommended amendments and findings represent the original proposal as amended to
address input received at and since the workshop. This hearing has been noticed as a new
hearing, however, the documents and slide show presented at the workshop are
incorporated by reference and have been relied upon to prepare the current proposal.

Compliance with Goal 14

Rule Citation:

        660-004-0040

       Application of Goal 14 (Urbanization) to Rural Residential Areas

Wasco County
                                                                                 Page
                                                                                   2 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under ob   Review

                                                          Avof-O¥3>-C 32.)
        (1) The purpose of this rule is to specify how Statewide Planning Goal 14,
        Urbanization, applies to rural lands in acknowledged exception areas planned for
        residential uses.

        (2)(a@) This rule applies to lands that are not within an urban growth boundary,
        that are planned and zoned primarily for residential uses, and for which an
        exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3, (Agricultural Lands), Goal 4 (Forest
        Lands), or both has been taken. Such lands are referred to in this rule as rural
        residential areas.

        (b) Sections (1) to (8) of this rule do not apply to the creation of a lot or parcel, or
        to the development or use of one single-family home on such lot or parcel, where
        the application for partition or subdivision was filed with the local government
        and deemed to be complete in accordance with ORS 215.427(3) before the
        effective date of Sections (1) to (8) of this rule.

        (c) This rule does not apply to types of land listed in (A) through (H) ofthis
        subsection:

        (A) land inside an acknowledged urban growth boundary;

        (B) land inside an acknowledged unincorporated community boundary
        established pursuant to OAR Chapter 660, Division 022,

        (C) land in an acknowledged urban reserve area established pursuant to OAR
        Chapter 660, Division 021;

        (D) land in an acknowledged destination resort established pursuant to
        applicable land use statutes and goals;

        (E) resource land, as defined in OAR 660-004-0005(2);

        (F) nonresource land, as defined in OAR 660-004-0005(3);

        (G) marginal land, as defined in ORS 197.247, 1991 Edition;

        (FH) land planned and zoned primarily for rural industrial, commercial, or public
        use.

Findings & Conclusion:
The County is applying the requirements of the appropriate Oregon Administrative Rule
to appropriate rural exception areas.

Wasco County                                                                        Page 3 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under ws)   Review

                                                               004-0 32. (32)
The proposed ordinance amendments protect development rights on existing legal lots,
for existing legal uses, and permissible uses in existing legal structures. Residential zone
changes are proposed to apply only to exception areas (non agricultural, non forest)
outside Urban Growth Boundaries or Unincorporated Community Boundaries. The
County has no urban reserve, marginal lands, or destination resorts nor does it have an
adopted program for creating such areas. No Non resource land zones in the County
(Seven Mile Hill) are impacted by the proposed rezone. None of the non. resource lands in
the County allow residential parcel sizes less than 2 acres and zones applied in the non
resource land areas would be found to comply with Division 4 limits if they were directly
applied. Any additional communities or service centers that can qualify as an
unincorporated community may plan for residential densities in accordance with the rural
communities rule. This will require full consideration of existing community facilities
and community facilities plans. Rural industrial and rural commercial zones will be
limited in accordance with guidance provided by the rural communities rule discussed at
the end of this document.

Rule Citation:
660-004-0040

        (7)(a) The creation of any new lot or parcel smaller than two acres ina rural
        residential area shall be considered an urban use. Such a lot or parcel may be
        created only if an exception to Goal 14 is taken. This subsection shall not be
        construed to imply that creation of new lots or parcels two acres or larger always
        complies with Goal 14. The question of whether the creation of such lots or
        parcels complies with Goal 14 depends upon compliance with all provisions of
        this rule.

        (b) Each local government must specify a minimum area for any new lot or parcel
        that is to be created in a rural residential area. For the purposes of this rule, that
        minimum area shall be referred to as the minimum lot size,

        (c) If, on the effective date of this rule, a local government's land use regulations
        specify a minimum lot size of two acres or more, the area of. any new lot or parcel
        shall equal or exceed that minimum lot size which is already in effect.

        (d) If, on the effective date of this rule, a local government's land use regulations
        specify a minimum lot size smaller than two acres, the area of any new lot or
        parcel created shall equal or exceed two acres.

Findings & Conclusion:
The proposed rural residential zone and agricultural residential zone comply with
                                                                                        the
limits on lot size for residential zones that pre existed the effective date of Division
                                                                                           4
residential zoning limits.

Wasco County
                                                                                      Page 4 of 14
Recommended Findings

                                                                           Prov 0432-032.»
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review
The proposed RR — 2 zone consolidates pre existing residential zones allowing for
minimum lot sizes less than 2 acres into a single rural residential zone that specifies a
minimum lot size of 2 acres for any new parcels.        This zone is not intended for
application in new exception areas but is proposed to be applied to all existing residential
zones with minimum lot sizes less than 2 acres. The County’s RR-5 zone applies only in
non resource land areas but is determined to include a rural density and rural lot size
based on the guidance provided by Division 4.

Changes proposed to apply to the agricultural residential zone will limit minimum lot size
to 2 acres until such time as the area is included within an unincorporated community
boundary.

Rule Citation:
660-004-0040 (7)

         (e) A local government may authorize a planned unit development (PUD), specify
         the size of lots or parcels by averaging density across a parent parcel, or allow
         clustering of new dwellings in a rural residential area only if all conditions set
        forth in paragraphs (7)(e)(A) through (7)(e)(H) are met:

        (A) The number of new dwelling units to be clustered or developed as a PUD does
        not exceed 10.

        (B) The number of new lots or parcels to be created does not exceed 10,

        (C) None of the new lots or parcels will be smaller than two acres.

        (D) The development is not to be served by a new community sewer system.

         (E) The development is not to be served by any new extension of a sewer system
        from within an urban growth boundary or from within an unincorporated
        community.

        (F) The overall density of the development will not exceed one dwelling for each
        unit of acreage specified in the local government's land use regulations on the
        effective date of this rule as the minimum lot size for the area.

         (G) Any group or cluster of two or more dwelling units will not force a significant
         change in accepted farm or forest practices on nearby lands devoted to farm or
        forest use and will not significantly increase the cost of accepted farm or forest
        practices there.

Wasco County                                                                            Page 5 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review

                                                                           Lyo0/-0¥3a.(30.)
         (H) For any open space or common area provided as a part of the cluster or
        Planned unit development under this subsection, the owner shall submit proof of
        nonrevocable deed restrictions recorded in the deed records. The deed
        restrictions shall preclude all future rights to construct a dwelling on the lot,
        parcel, or tract designated as open space or common area for as long as the lot,
        parcel, or tract remains outside an urban growth boundary.

        () Except as provided in subsection (e) of this section, a local government shall
        not allow more than one permanent single-family dwelling to be placed on a lot
        or parcel in a rural residential area. Where a medical hardship creates a need for
        a@ second household to reside temporarily on a lot or parcel where one dwelling
        already exists, a local government may authorize the temporary placement of a
        manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle.

        (g) In rural residential areas, the establishment of a new mobile home park or
        manufactured dwelling park as defined in ORS 446.003(32) shall be considered
        an urban use if the density of manufactured dwellings in the park exceeds the
        density for residential development set by this rule's requirements for minimum
        lot and parcel sizes. Such a park may be established only if an exception to Goal
        14 is taken.

        (h) A local government may allow the creation of a new parcel or parcels smaller
        than a minimum lot size required under subsections (a) through (d) of this section
        without an exception to Goal 14 only if the conditions described in paragraphs
        (A) through (D) of this subsection exist;

        (A) The parcel to be divided has two or more permanent habitable dwellings on
        it;

        (B) The permanent habitable dwellings on the parcel to be divided were
        established there before the effective date of this rule;

        (C) Each new parcel created by the partition would have at least one of those
        permanent habitable dwellings on it; and

        (D) The partition would not create any vacant parcels on which a new dwelling
        could be established.

        (E) For purposes of this rule, "habitable dwelling" means a dwelling that meets
        the criteria set forth in ORS 215.283(t)(A)-(1)(D).

Wasco County                                                                     Page 6 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review
                                                                           LAv0Y-0 $3 a(32>)
Findings & Conclusion:
The proposed Rural Residential 2 Acre Zone (RR-2), and Agricultural Recreation Zone
as amended, comply with rural residential use limits in addition to minimum lot size
requirements.

Planned Unit Development standards are applied unless the land is brought into an
unincorporated community boundary. The number of dwellings per lot is limited to one,
mobile or manufactured home parks are allowed only subject to applicable limits to
density, and minimum lot sizes for land divisions where both parcels include an existing
legal habitable dwelling that existed prior to the effective date of Division 4 — 0040 are
set.

Rule Citation:
660-004-0040 (7)

        i) For rural residential areas designated after the effective date of this rule, the
        affected county shall either:

        (A) Require that any new lot or parcel have an area of at least ten acres, or

        (B) Establish a minimum size of at least two acres for new lots or parcels in
        accordance with the requirements for an exception to Goal 14 in OAR 660,
        Division 014. The minimum lot size adopted by the county shall be consistent with
        OAR 660-004-0018, "Planning and Zoning for Exception Areas."

Findings & Conclusion:
The County has an FF-10 and RR-10 zone. The most appropriate of these zones can be
applied to new Goal 3 or Goal 4 exception areas. If a Goal 14 exception is successfully
sought the RR-5 or RR-2 zones could potentially be applied though they are not primarily
intended for application to new exception areas in Wasco County. The majority of the
land base zoned RR-10 or FF-10 currently exists in non resource areas of the County.
These zones are determined to be rural based on guidance provided by Division 4.

Rule Citation:

660-022-0030

Planning and Zoning of Unincorporated Communities

         (3) County plans and land use regulations may authorize only the following new
        or expanded industrial uses in unincorporated communities:

Wasco County                                                                        Page 7 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review Jp.

                                                                           4004-0432 32»
        (a) Uses authorized under Goals 3 and 4,

        (b) Expansion of a use existing on the date of this rule;

        (c) Small-scale, low impact uses;

        (d) Uses that require proximity to rural resource, as defined in OAR 660-004-
        0022(3)(a),

        (e) New uses that will not exceed the capacity of water and sewer service
        available to the site on the effective date of this rule, or, if such services are not
        available to the site, the capacity of the site itself to provide water and absorb
        sewage;

        (11) For purposes of subsection (c) of section (3) of this rule, a small-scale, low
        impact industrial use is one which takes place in an urban unincorporated
        community in a building or buildings not exceeding 60,000 square feet of floor
        space, or in any other type of unincorporated community in a building or
        buildings not exceeding 40,000 square feet of floor space.

Findings & Conclusion:

The proposed Rural Industrial Zone limits permissible uses in accordance with guidance
provided by Division 22 Unincorporated Communities.

The Rural Industrial Zone applies a limitation on floor area that is less than that provided
for inside an unincorporated community boundary (35,000 vs. 40,000). Though the
unincorporated community rule is not directly applicable, this type of limitation has been
found to be consistent with LCDC policy in the past and is the recommended approach
by DLCD staff. The proposed Rural Industrial Zone also requires that permitted uses not
require extension of urban services from within an urban growth boundary or community
services from within an unincorporated community.

Rule Citation:

660-022-0030

Planning and Zoning of Unincorporated Communities

        (4) County plans and land use regulations may authorize only the following new
        commercial uses in unincorporated communities:

        (a) Uses authorized under Goals 3 and 4;

Wasco County                                                                         Page 8 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review
                                                                           4400-0 Y32-(32)
        (b) Small-scale, low impact uses;

        (c) Uses intended to serve the community and surrounding rural area or the
        travel needs of people passing through the area.

        (5) County plans and land use regulations may authorize hotels and motels in
        unincorporated communities only if served by a community sewer system and only
        as provided in subsections (a) through (c) of this section:

        (a) Any number of new motel and hotel units may be allowed in resort
        communities;

        (b) New motels and hotels up to 35 units may be allowed in an urban
        unincorporated community, rural service center, or rural community if the
        unincorporated community is at least 10 miles from the urban growth boundary of
        any city adjacent to Interstate Highway 5, regardless of its proximity to any other
        UGB;

        (c) New motels and hotels up to 100 units may be allowed in any urban
        unincorporated community that is at least 10 mile from any urban growth
        boundary.

        (10) For purposes of subsection (b) of section (4) of this rule, a small-scale, low
        impact commercial use is one which takes place in an urban unincorporated
        community in a building or building not exceeding 8,000 square feet of floor
        Space, or in any other type of unincorporated community in a building or
        buildings not exceeding 4, 000 square feet of floor space,

Findings & Conclusion:

The proposed Rural Commercial Zone and Agricultural Recreational Zone, as amended,
limit permissible uses in accordance with guidance provided by Division 22
Unincorporated Communities.

The Rural Commercial and Agricultural Recreational Zones apply a limitation on floor
area that is less than that provided for inside an unincorporated community boundary
(3,500 vs. 4,000 sq.ft.). Though the unincorporated community rule is not directly
applicable, this type of limitation has been found to be consistent with LCDC policy in
the past and is the recommended approach by DLCD staff. The proposed Rural
Commercial Zone also requires that permitted uses not require extension of urban
services from within an urban growth boundary or community services from within an
unincorporated community.

Wasco County                                                                      Page9 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review

                                                                           {4004-0 Zral32,)
It is also important to note that the Agricultural Recreation Zone continues to allow Dude
Ranches and hunting and fishing lodges along with Youth/family camps. These uses have
been determined to fall short of a purely commercial definition and to differ significantly
from a hotel or motel use.     For the following reasons neither the 3,500 sq. ft. limit nor the
35 unit limitation are applied:

The sleeping facilities in a ranch, lodge, or camp are typically dormitory style and the
facilities are not set up to accommodate overnight guests as much as they are to house
campers who will typically eat and sleep in the same establishment while recreating in
the rural atmosphere. These camps, lodges, or ranches must be located in a rural setting
to feasibly draw campers to the locations and the campers typically stay for a number of
days. Employees may be housed at the site and may stay for a number of weeks or
months. This distinction is critical and must be allowed to provide valuable economic
diversification and increased exposure to rural areas for individuals living in more urban
areas.     Like all uses allowed in the Agricultural Recreation Zone, these uses will not be
allowed to be created or expand in a manner that exceeds the demonstrated carrying
capacity of available services (including transportation, water, and sewer or septic
systems). The existing definition of youth and family camp distinguishes this use from
that ofa hotel. The camp facilities are more self contained and are not set up to handle or
located to draw and profit primarily form overnight guests. The Definition of Dude
Ranch further clarifies the distinction by stating that an establishment offering overnight
accommodation not in conjunction with recreational activities shall be deemed a hotel or
campground.

Compliance with Other Goals

Goal 1 — Citizen Involvement
      Goal 1 has been complied with by public notice and a public work session. The public
      work shop with the Planning Commissioners, and County Court members present,
      occurred prior to opening hearings and provided an opportunity to provide input and
      ask questions or request additional information prior to initiation of the hearing
      process. The public work session also provided the opportunity for word of mouth
      news to travel through affected areas and comments and questions provided over the
      phone following the work session have been addressed as well as possible either over
      the phone on in this proposal.

Goal 2 — Land Use Planning
An adequate factual base for land use decision making has been assured in this process
by:
      1)   Applicable state laws were identified early on in the process,

Wasco County
                                                                                    Page 10 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review
                                                                            ADOY- DFS -(32.)
    2)   Related state laws that provide guidance as to the likely interpretation of the case
         law in this matter were also identified and considered,
    3)   All county exception areas were identified and the zoning of the various areas was
         considered for compliance with applicable state laws,
    4)   Distinctions, or the lack thereof, between various residential, commercial and
         industrial zones (once brought into compliance with state law) were considered
         and a simplified range of land use zones is recommended,
    5)   Appropriate zone changes were identified based on existing zoning in most cases
         and existing uses in limited cases where existing zoning alone does not provide
         sufficient guidance as to the most similar and applicable zone to be applied, and
    6)   County zoning and comprehensive plan maps are amended to apply the new
         consolidated or amended zoning designations.

Work session review of the proposal also generated the question of what uses can best be
accommodated on smaller rural residential parcels. The table below provides a
comparison of uses, lot dimensions and set backs between several rural residential zones
that is considered when recommending uses for the RR-2 Zone:

Summary Table - Residential Uses, Dimensions and Set Backs

Wasco County
                                                                                  Page 11 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments fequired under Periodic Review

                                                                           Booy- 03232)
                                                                                                  (
                  FF-10                         RR-10                      RR-5                        RR-2                        R-1
Permitted         Farm Use                      Farm Use                   Farm Use, provided      Farm Use, provided              Home Occupation
                  Forest Use                    Forest Use                 animals kept safe and | animals kept safe and
                  Public utilities              Public Utilities           sanitary                sanitary
                  Conservation areas            Conservation areas         Forest Use                  Forest Use
                  Energy Facilities Ch-19       Energy facilities Ch-19    Ag Produce Stands           Ag Produce Stands
                  Ag Produce Stand              Ag Produce Stand           Home Occupation             Home Occupation
                  Horses for profit             Horses for profit          Cemetery                    Cemetery
                                                                           Public Energy
                                                                           Facilities

Conditional       Commercial activities w/    | Commercial activities w/   Pub and semi pub            Pub and semi pub            Hospital/school
Uses              farm use                      farm use                   bidgs                       bldgs                       Parks
                  Aggregate                     Aggregate                  Private schools             Private schools             Pub and semi public
                  Parks                         Parks                      Parks                       Parks                       bidgs
                  Home Occupations              Home Occupations           Golf courses                Golf courses                Golf courses
                  Energy Facilities Ch- 19      Energy Facilities Ch- 19   Temporary office for      | Temporary office for | Public utility facilities
                  PU Airports                   PU Airports                sale of lots                sale of lots           B&B
                  Schools                       Schools                    PU Airports                 Mobile home parks
                  Churches                      Churches                   Mobile home parks           RY parks
                  Aquatic species               Aquatic species            RV parks                    Public utility facilities
                  Solid waste disposal site   | Kennels                    Aggregate                   B&B
                  Sanitary Landfill                                        Kennels                     Dude ranches
                  Kennels                                                  Energy facilities Ch-19
                                                                           B&B
                                                                           Dude ranches
Width             330                           330                        300                         125                         100
Set Backs
          Front | 25                            25                         25                          2                           25
           Side | 25                             25                        15                          15                          15
           Rear | 40                            40                         20                          20                          20
Fire Standards { Yes                            Yes                        Yes                         Yes                         None
Scenic            None                          Yes                        None                        None                        None
Development
Standards

Goal 3 - Agricultural Lands
The proposal does not conflict with Goal 3. it does not promote new non-farm uses on
farm lands nor does it limit accepted farm practices on EFU ground.

Goal 4 — Forest Land
The Goal 4 analysis with respect to forest lands is the same as that set forth under Goal 3
with respect to farm lands.

Goal 6 - Air, Land, and Water Resources
Limitation of permissible uses to those of a rural nature and extent does not conflict with
Goal 6 since these limitations do not promote additional development beyond the

Wasco County                                                                                                     Page 12 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review

                                                                                                  Bo0Y-0 £32 3>)
                                                                                           f:
carrying capacity of existing services and are, if anything, complementary to objectives
of air, land, and water resource protection.

Goal 7 — Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards.
Implementation of Goal 7 is not impeded by this proposal. This proposal does not
encourage additional structural development in natural hazard areas. If development
were to be proposed in an identified hazard area applicable regulations would still be
applied regardless of the rural nature of the proposed use.

Goal 8 — Recreation Needs
Providing for recreation needs is important to the Wasco County economy. Enjoyment of
fish and wildlife and other rural resources is an integral part of outdoor recreational
experience.    Goal 14 interests represented by this proposal and Goal 8 interests are
compatible.

Goal 9 — Economy of the State
Preservation of rural areas contributes to Oregon’s economic sustainability, particularly
in less populated areas of the state. The proposal will result in greater clarity regarding
the range of potential rural uses. It will also help make sure the these uses can be served
affordably.    No incompatibility exists between the current Goal 14 proposal and Goal 9
interests.

Goal 10 ~ Housing
This goal is not impacted by this proposal. The overlays apply only outside the Urban
Growth Boundaries (UGB) and under Goal 10 housing needs are to be addressed chiefly
by measures taken inside the UGB.

Goal 11 — Public Facilities
The proposal does not encourage new development or promote demand for public
facilities outside the UGB. The proposal is not inconsistent with Goal 11 and in fact is
compatible with Goal 11 as Goal 11 and 14 are mutually supportive.

Goal 12 — Transportation
Goal 12 response with respect to transportation impacts is the same as that set forth under
Goal 11 with respect to public facilities.

Goal 13 - Energy Conservation
Goal 13 response with respect to impacts on energy conservation is the same as that set
forth under Goal 11 with respect to public facilities.

Goal 15 —- 19
Not applicable

Wasco County                                                                     Page 13 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review   f:
                                                                            AobYy- 0 32. (32)
Ordinance Citation
CHAPTER      9 ZONE     CHANGE      AND    ORDINANCE        AMENDMENT

SECTION 9.020 Criteria for Decision

       The Approving Authority may grant a zone change only if the following circumstances
       are found to exist:

       A, The original zoning was the product of a mistake; or

       B. It is established that:

        1, The rezoning will conform with the Comprehensive Plan, and,

       2. The site is suitable to the proposed zone;
        3. There has been a conscious consideration of the public health,
          safety and welfare in applying the specific zoning regulations.

Findings & Conclusion:
Ordinance amendments as proposed bring existing zones into compliance with Goal 14 rules
and case law. All zones as proposed are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan framework.
No text amendment to the Comprehensive Plan is required. Zones applied are selected based
on existing zoning and suitability of proposed zoning to existing and future uses.

Wasco County                                                                    Page 14 of 14
Recommended Findings
Supporting Adoption of Goal 14 amendments required under Periodic Review
                                                                            a064- 0432-C32)
                                                                                       Exhbrk ” Ae 2"

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development
Ordinance
Section 3.230 — “A-R” Agricultural-Recreational zone; December
16, 2004
SECTION 3.230 "A-R" AGRICULTURAL-RECREATIONAL ZONE
A. Purpose
       The purpose of the "A-R" Agricultural-Recreational zone is to provide areas for
       outdoor recreation and to allow controlled growth to continue in existing rural
       communities and rural exception areas. Buildings and structures hereafter
       erected, structurally altered, enlarged or moved and land hereafter used in the
       "A-R" Agricultural-Recreationa!l zone shall comply with the following regulations:
B. Permitted Uses
       In the “A-R" Agricultural-Recreational zone, the following uses and activities and
       their accessory buildings and uses are permitted subject to the general
       provisions and exceptions set forth by this Ordinance:
             1.   One single-family dwelling on any legally created parcel, including mobile
                  homes at least eighteen (18) feet wide, subject to Section 4.160, provided
                  proper sanitation approval is obtained.
             2.   Accessory structures customarily provided in conjunction with the primary
                  use.
             3.   Any new commercial service, or retail use, permissible in this zone that
                  will be located entirely within an existing, lawfully erected commercial
                  building or structure. (CONSISTENT WITH CHAPER 4)
             4.   Farm use, provided animals and fowl are properly caged or housed and
                  proper sanitation is maintained.
             5.   Forest uses, including the propagation and harvesting of forest products.
             6.   Dude ranches and hunting and fishing lodges, including overnight
                  facilities in accordance with Chapter 20, Site Plan Review and
                  demonstrated not to require service by a new community sewer or
                  extension of an existing sewer system from within an urban growth
                  boundary or from within an unincorporated community.
             7.   Public parks, recreation areas, preserves and community or
                  neighborhood centers in accordance with Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.
             8.   Water supply and treatment facility.
             9.   Sewage disposal and treatment facility.
             10, Recreational vehicles provided such vehicles are not attached to the land
                 and proper sanitation is maintained.
             11. Recreational vehicle parks in accordance with Chapter 17, with a density
                  that meets or exceeds the minimum lot size for the zone, and that is

Chapter 3 Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.230                                                                       Page 1 of 4

                                                         PA 00-0 30 32>
                demonstrated not to require service by       a new community sewer or
                extension of an existing sewer system from within an urban growth
                boundary or from within an unincorporated community..
           12. Mobile home parks in accordance with Chapter 16 with a density that
               meets or exceeds the minimum lot size for the zone, and that is
                demonstrated not to require service by a new community sewer or
                extension of an existing sewer system from within an urban growth
                boundary or from within an unincorporated community..
          13. Subdivisions.
          14. Agricultural Produce Stand in accordance with Chapter 20, Site Plan
                Review. (Revised 1-92)
           15. Youth/family camp demonstrated not to require service by a new
               community sewer or extension of an existing sewer system from within an
                urban growth boundary or from within an unincorporated community.
                (Added 9/97).
           16. Guest house subject to standards in Section 4.170.

Cc. Uses Permitted Conditionally
       In the "A-R" Agricultural-Recreational zone, the following uses and activities and
       their accessory buildings and uses are permitted when authorized by the
       Approving Authority upon satisfactory demonstration of compliance with the
       standards of this Ordinance as required in Chapter 5 and this section:
           1.   Exploration, mining and processing of aggregate and other mineral
                resources or other subsurface resources.
          2.    Airports.
          3.    Auditoriums, outdoor stages and entertainment areas.
                Small scale low impact retail commercial uses provided the following
                conditions are met:
                    a.      the use is in conjunction with the development of a, Subdivision,
                            Mobile Home Park or Recreational Vehicle Park,
                    b.      the use is designed to serve the residents and their quests of the
                         development, and
                    c.   the Approving Authority may require that the applicant submit a
                         market analysis demonstrating the need for the proposed
                         commercial development.
                Golf courses (except commercial driving ranges, miniature courses or
                similar courses operated as a business).
                Energy facilities and commercial energy facilities subject to the provisions
                of Chapter 19.
                Utility facilities necessary for public service.
                Home Occupations, subject to Chapter 20. (added 2-89)

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.230
                                                                                    Page 2 of 4
                                                  3004-0 $32( 32)
            9.   Bed and breakfast inns. (added 2-89)
D. Property Development Standards
   1.   Property Size - Minimum parcel size for residential lots in the AR zone outside an
        unincorporated community boundary is 2 acres with a minimum fot width of 150
        feet. Other uses shall be located on parcels determined to be sufficient to
        support the proposed use based on the amount of area required for proper
        sanitation, off-street parking, maintenance of setbacks and compatibility with
        adjacent uses.
        Structure Size — A size limitation is applicable to all small scale low impact
        commercial uses. The total cumulative floor area of a commercial structure or
        structures, built to accommodate or support any of the commercial uses listed in
        the AR zone, shall not exceed 3,500 square feet in an exception area zoned AR
        Setbacks
                     a.     Front Yard - No structure other than a fence or sign shalt be
                            located closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the right-of-way of a
                            Public road except where forty percent (40%) of the frontage is
                            developed with buildings having front yards with a variation of not
                            more than ten (10) feet in depth, the average of such depth shall
                            establish the front yard depth of the entire frontage.
                     b.     Side Yard - No structure other than a fence shall be located closer
                            than seven (7) feet from side property lines for interior lots and ten
                            (10) feet from exterior side property lines for corner building sites.
                            {revised 2-89)
                     c.     Rear Yard - No structure other than a fence shall be located closer
                            than seven (7) feet from the rear yard property line, (revised 2-89)
        Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
        thirty (30) feet.
        Height - Maximum height for ail structures shall be thirty-five (35) feet. Height is
        measured from average grade.
        Stream or Lake Setbacks - All structures, or similar permanent fixtures (except
        hydroelectric facilities and docks) shall be set back from the high water line or
        mark along all streams or lakes a minimum distance of fifty (50) feet when
        measured horizontally at a right angle.
        Signs - Signs shall not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the
        property line.
           a.    Signs shall not be illuminated or capable of movement.
           b.    Signs shall be'limited to twelve (12) square feet in area and shall describe
                 only uses permitted and conducted on the property which the sign is
                 located.
           c.    Signs advertising the sale or rental of the premise and temporary in
                 nature are permitted provided the sign is erected no closer than ten (10)
                 feet from the right-of-way of public road.
   8.   Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with
                                                                          Chapter 4.

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.230
                                                                                      Page 3 of 4

                                                foo               ¢3 aC 32)
   9.   Lighting - Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded and hooded
        in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent properties,
        roadways and waterways. The exterior of shielding and hooding materials shall
        be composed of non_reflective, opaque materials.
   10. New Driveways: All new driveways which access a public road shall obtain a
       Road Approach Permit from the Wasco County Public Works Department.

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance

                                         PA 00-0 43235)
Section 3.230                                                                     Page 4 of 4
                                                                                           Fx Wirt   “Alawf

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development
Ordinance
Section 3.310 — “RR-2” Rural Residential 2 acre zone; December
16, 2004

SECTION            3.310 "RR-2" RURAL           RESIDENTIAL 2 ACRE ZONE
A. Purpose
              The purpose of the "RR-2" Rural Residential 2 acre zone is to provide for single-
              family residential use plus related compatible uses such as schools and parks.
              This zone is designed for those areas outside an Urban Growth Boundary or
              acknowledged Unincorporated Community Boundary, subject to a resource land
              goal exception prior to November 4, 2000, and not necessarily served by a public
              water or public sewer system. Buildings or structures hereafter erected,
              structurally altered, enlarged or moved and land hereafter used in the "RR-2"
              Rural Residential 2 acre zone shall comply with the following regulations.
B. Permitted Uses
              In the "RR-2" Rural Residential zone the following uses and activities and their
              accessory buildings and uses are permitted subject to the general provisions and
              exceptions set forth by this Ordinance:
       1.     One single-family dwelling on any legally created parcel including mobile homes
              at least eighteen (18) feet wide subject to Section 4.160, provided proper
              sanitation approval is obtained.
      2.      Buildings accessory to a single-family dwelling such as garages, store-rooms,
              woodsheds, laundry room, playhouse, greenhouse, hobby shop, animal or fow!
              shelter or similar and related accessory uses.
      3.      Farm uses, provided animals and fowl are properly caged or housed and proper
              sanitation is maintained.
              Forest uses, including the propagation and harvesting of forest products.
  OONOAA SR

              Agricultural Produce Stands in accordance with Chapter 20, Site Plan Review.
              Home occupation, subject to chapter 20.
              Cemetery.
              Subdivisions in accordance with Chapter 21.
              Guest house subject to standards in Section 4.170.
C. Uses Permitted Conditionally
              In the "R-2" Rural Residential_zone, the following uses and activities and their
              accessory buildings and uses are permitted when authorized by the Approving
              Authority upon satisfactory demonstration of compliance with the standards
                                                                                             of
              this Ordinance as_required in Chapter 5 and this section:

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance

                                               facrtf-0f32( 225
Section 3.310                                                                          Page 1 of 4
    1.   Public and semi-public buildings, structures and uses essential to the physical,
         social and economic welfare of an area, including but not limited to: fire stations,
         schools, granges, community halls, churches and libraries.
         Private schools or day nursery centers.
         Parks, playgrounds and recreation areas and community or neighborhood
         centers.
   4.    Golf courses (except commercial driving ranges, miniature golf courses or similar
         course operated as a business), country club, swimming club or tennis club.
   5.    Temporary tract office for the sale of lots in subdivision in which the office is
         located.
         Utility Facility necessary for public service.
         Bed and breakfast inns.
         Dude ranches and hunting and fishing lodges, including overnight facilities in
         accordance with Chapter 20, Site Plan Review and demonstrated not to require
         service by a new community sewer or extension of an existing sewer system
         from within an urban growth boundary or from within an unincorporated
         community.
D. Property Development Standards
    1.   Property Size - The minimum property size is two (2) acres with a one hundred
         twenty five (125) foot average lot width.
   2,    Setbacks -
             a.   Front Yard - No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located
                  closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the right-of-way of a public road
                  except where forty (40) percent of the frontage is developed with
                  buildings having front yards with a variation of not more than ten (10) feet
                  in depth, the average of such depth shall establish the front yard depth of
                  the entire frontage.
             b.   Side Yard - No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than
                  fifteen (15) feet from side property lines for interior lots and twenty (20)
                  feet from exterior side property lines for corner building sites.
             c.   Rear Yard - No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than
                  twenty (20) feet from the rear yard property line.           .
   3.    Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
         thirty (30) feet.
   4.    Height - Maximum       height for all dweilings shall be thirty-five (35) feet. Height is
         measured from average grade. Detached accessory structures shall not exceed
         a maximum        height of eighteen (18) feet. (Added 1-92)
   5.    Stream Setbacks - All structures or similar permanent fixtures shall be setback
         from the high water line or mark along all streams or lakes a minimum distance of
         fifty (50) feet when measured horizontally at a right angle.
   6.    Signs - Signs shall not extend over a public right-of-way or project beyond the
         property line.

Chapter 3 — Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.310
                                                                                        Page 2 of 4

                   |                 |         Pp00%4-04 32-(32)
           a.    Signs shall not be illuminated or capable of movement.
            b.   Signs shall be limited to twelve (12) square feet in area and shall describe
                 only uses permitted and conducted on the property which the sign is
                 located.
                 Signs advertising the sale or rental of the premise and temporary in
                 nature are permitted provided the sign is erected no closer than ten (10)
                 feet from the right-of-way of public road.
   7,   Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.
        Fire Safety Standards (added 2-89) - All dwellings, and other structures as
        specified, shall institute the following fire safety measures for protection of the
        development and of surrounding areas:
            a.   if the development includes a plumbed water system, at least one
                 standpipe shall be placed a minimum of fifty (50) feet from the dwelling;
                 and
                 Separate power service independent of the dwelling shall be provided for
                 the pump utilized in a. above, and shall be provided by a public utility. Any
                 exception to this requirement shall be approved in writing by a state
                 licensed fire engineer; and
                 A minimum water flow equal to twenty (20) gallons per minute for fifty (50)
                 minutes, for a total water capacity of one thousand (1,000) gallons shall
                 be provided. This water source shall be available year-round, and must
                 be usable by the rural fire protection provider (if applicable); and
                 Any chimney or stovepipe on any structure for use with a woodstove or
                 fireplace shall be screened to prevent discharge of sparks or other
                 buming material; and
                 Power and telephone should be located underground where practicable.
                 Practicable is defined as ‘feasible in the circumstances’ by Blacks Law
                 Dictionary. For the purposes of this section, practicable means whether
                 the power lines can be physically put underground without undue
                 hardship or difficulty because of circumstances in the land that are unique
                 to this development. Cost alone does not allow for a determination that
                 power lines cannot be located underground.) (added 6-98); and
                 If a water supply, such as a swimming pool, pond, stream or lake, exists
                 within one hundred (100) feet of the driveway or road at a reasonable
                 grade, then access to within fifteen (15) feet of the water's edge should
                 be provided for pumping units. Access shall be a minimum of twelve (12)
                 feet in width, maximum twelve percent (12%) grade, with a fourteen (14)
                 foot vertical clearance. The access road shall have a fifty thousand
                 (50,000) pound carrying capacity. Access roads over one hundred fifty
                 (150) feet in length shall provide a turn-around for vehicles. (added 6- 98)
                 and
                 Exterior roofing shall be of fire-resistant materials (added 6-98); and
                 The owners of the dweiling and structures shall: maintain a primary fuel
                 free break area surrounding all structures; clear and maintain a
                 secondary fuel-free break area according to the chart below or to the

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance

                                     £20040 32 C32
Section 3.310                                                                       Page 3 of 4
                   property boundaries whichever is the shortest distance. This break shall
                   consist of removal of fire fuels from the ground, shrubs from under large
                   trees, and tree limbs within five (5) feet of the ground (added 6-98); and

             Size of fuel break safety zone by percent slope
             % Slope              feet of primary zone           feet of secondary zone
             0                    30                             ce)
             10                   30                             50
             20                   30                             78
             25                   30                              100
             40                   30                             150

             i.    The owners of the dwelling and structures shall: maintain setbacks from
                   ridgetops, cliffs and bluffs equal to those listed below or as far as the
                   property size and configuration allows if the full setback cannot be
                   accomplished. The steeper the slope, the greater the flame length, the
                   hotter the flame front and the faster the rate of fire spread. This is
                   primarily due to preheating of the vegetation upslope from the fire,
                   increased draft of fresh air to the fire from below (added 6-98); and
                   Setback from Major Slope Changes in Conjunction with Fuel Break Safety
                   Zone (The definition of a major slope change is a change in slope 10% or
                   greater.)

             On a slope change Where the downhill slope is               Feet of Setback
             10%                                                         50
             20%                                                         75
             25%                                                         4100
             40%                                                         150

    9.   Lighting - Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded
                                                                                      and hooded
         in a manner that prevents the fighting from Projecting onto adjacent
                                                                                    properties,
         roadways and waterways. The exterior of shielding and hooding material
                                                                                         s shalt
         be composed of nonreflective, opaque materials.
    10. New Driveways — All new driveways which access a Public road
                                                                     shall obtain a
         Road Approach Permit from the Wasco County Public Works Departm
                                                                         ent.

Chapter 3 — Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordina
                                                         nce
Section 3.310
                                                                                    Page 4 of 4

                                             S24 Doyo 3 2(32)
                                                                                        Exbibik “A-y

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development
Ordinance
Section 3.410 — “RC” Rural Commercial zone; December 16, 2004

SECTION        3.410 "RC"     Rural Commercial!
A. Purpose
         The “RC” Rural Commercial Zone is intended to provide for a wide variety of
         commercial housing and related activities. This designation is designed for
         application in exception areas outside Urban Growth Boundaries of incorporated
         cities and community boundaries of acknowledged unincorporated communities.
         Buildings and structures hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or moved
         and land hereafter used in the "RC" Rural Commercial Zone shall make application
         for a site plan review, and comply with the following regulations.

B. Permitted Uses
         In the "RC" Rural Commercial Zone, the following uses and activities and their
         accessory buildings and uses are permitted subject to the general provisions and
         exceptions set forth by this Ordinance:
   Any new commercial service, or retail use, listed in section C of this zone that will be
   located entirely within an existing, lawfully erected commercial building or structure,
   demonstrating compliance with off-street and public parking and loading area
   requirements in Chapter 4.

   C. Uses Permitted Subject Site Plan Review
         In the “RC” Rural Commercial Zone The following small scale low impact
         commercial uses or any combination of these uses and their accessory uses are
         permitted in a building or buildings not exceeding 3,500 sq. ft. of floor space when
         authorized by the Approving Authority upon satisfactory demonstration of
         compliance with the standards of this Ordinance as required in Chapter 20 (Site
         Plan Review) and this Chapter:
         Retail or service business.
   >

         Eating or drinking establishment.
   wn

         Offices.
         Veterinary clinic and kennel entirely within an enclosed building.
   oak

         Studio.
         Public garage, including usual automobile repairs and servicing enclosed within the
         building that, when within fifty (50) feet of an “A-1” or “R” zone, there shall be no
         openings in the building walls facing the boundaries of an “A-1” or “R” zone other
         than stationary windows, except where such building walls abut streets or alleys.
   7,    Residential use in the same building as an allowed use.

Chapter 3 — Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.410                                                                      Page 1 of 3

                                             LA00¢ 0432-33)
D. Uses Permitted Conditionally
            In the "RC" Rural Commercial Zone, the following small scale low impact
            commercial uses or any combination of these uses and activities and their
            accessory building or buildings, not exceeding cumulative floor area of 3,500
            square feet, are permitted when authorized by the Approving Authority upon
            satisfactory demonstration of compliance with the standards of this Ordinance as
            required in Chapter 5 and this section:
        .   Automobile service stations.
            Wind energy conversion system subject to the provisions of Chapter 19 (Standards
  N

            for Energy Facilities).
            Utility facilities necessary for public service, except landfill.
  w

            Recreational Vehicle Park.
  Oar

            Church.
            Place of public assembly, stadium, auditorium, recreation building or natatorium.
            Public or semi public buildings.
  ON

            Commercial amusement establishments when enclosed in a building (stadium,
            theatre, bowling alley, theatre).
            Public or private school
   10. Child care center
   11. Parks, athletic fields, playgrounds or community centers owned by a governmental
            or non profit agency or community organization
   12. Medical center
   13. Water supply or treatment facility.

D. Property Development Standards
   1.       Property Size - The minimum property size for development shall be determined
            based on the amount of area required for proper sanitation, off-street parking,
            maintenance of setbacks and compatibility with adjacent uses.
            Setbacks
               a.     Front Yard - No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located closer
                      than twenty-five (25) feet from the right-of-way of a public road except
                      where forty percent (40%) of the frontage is developed with buildings
                      having front yards with a variation of ten (10) feet in depth shall establish
                      the front yard depth of the entire frontage.
               b.     Side Yard - Where the side of a (ot or parcel in a "C-1" zone abuts the side
                      of an "A-1" or an "R" zone, there shall be a side yard of not less than seven
                      (7) feet.   in all cases, on a corner lot or parcel, there shall be a side yard
                      setback of ten (10) feet-from exterior side property lines for corner
                                                                                            building
                      sites. In other cases, a side yard for commercial buildings shall not be
                      required.

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.410
                                                                                           Page 2 of 3

                                                 J3O004- OY32.(32)
           c.   Rear Yard - No structure other than a fence shail be located closer than
                twenty (20) feet from the rear yard property line.
      Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
      thirty (30) feet.
      Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be thirty-five (35) feet. Height is
      measured from average grade.
      Stream Setbacks - All structures or similar permanent fixtures shall be set back
      from the high water line or mark along all streams or lakes a minimum distance of
      fifty (50) feet wnen measured horizontally at a right angle.
      Signs - Except as is necessary for traffic safety, the following sign regulations shall
      apply to all uses:
      a.        Signs shail be limited to business identification and or goods and services
                manufactured and or sold on the premises.
      b.        No sign shall project above the building.
      c.        Signs are permitted in a ratio of one square foot of sign area to each linear
                foot of store frontage and shall be placed flat against the walls of the
                buildings with the exception of athletic field scoreboards which shall be the
                minimum size necessary for the intended purpose.
      d.        Signs shall not be placed upon walls or surfaces abutting an "A-1" or an "R"
                zone.
      e.        Separate directional signs not to exceed an area of sixteen (16) square feet
                are permitted on property of an Automobile Service Station or public
                parking area, but must not project beyond the property line of such
                establishment.
      f.        Flashing, digital, electronic, and LED (light emitting diode) signs shall be
                prohibited except as is necessary for athletic scoreboards.
      g.        Signs capable of movement shall be prohibited.
      h.        Signs advertising the sale or rental of the premise and temporary in nature
                are permitted provided the sign is erected no closer than ten (10) feet from
                the right-of-way of public road.

      Parking - Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.
      Lighting - Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded and hooded
      in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent properties,
      roadways and waterways. The exterior of shielding and hooding materials shall be
      composed of nonreflective opaque materials.
      New Driveways — All new driveways which access a public road shall obtain a
      Road Approach Permit from the Wasco County Public Works Department.

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.410

                                            L000 32lao>
                                                                                 Page 3 of 3
                                                                                      a     heb t   " A-5"

Chapter 3 - Wasco County Land Use and Development
Ordinance
Section 3.510 — “RI” Rural Industrial zone; December 16, 2004

SECTION        3.510 "RI" RURAL         INDUSTRIAL ZONE
A. Purpose
The “RI” Rural Industrial Zone is intended to create, preserve, and enhance areas
containing secondary manufacturing and related establishments and intense commercial
uses with limited external impact. This designation is designed for application in
exception areas outside Urban Growth Boundaries of incorporated cities and community
boundaries of acknowledged unincorporated communities
Buildings and structures hereafter erected, structurally altered, enlarged or moved and
land hereafter used in the "RI" Rural Industrial Zone shail make application for a site
plan review and comply with the following regulations.
B. Permitted Uses
In the "RI" Rural Industrial Zone, the following uses and activities and their accessory
buildings and uses are permitted subject to the general provisions and exceptions set
forth by this Ordinance:
Any new industrial use listed in C of this zone, that will be located entirely within an
existing, lawfully erected commercial or industrial building or structure_demonstrating
compliance with off-street and public parking and loading area requirements in Chapter
4.

C. Uses Permitted Subject to Site Plan Review
       in the “RI” zone, the following small scale low impact industrial uses and activities
       and their accessory buildings and uses are permitted in a building or buildings
       not exceeding 35,000 sq. ft. of floor space when authorized by the Approving
       Authority upon satisfactory demonstration of compliance with the standards of
       this Ordinance as required in Chapter 20 (Site Plan Review) and this Chapter:
    1. Light manufacturing, compounding or assembly, reprocessing, recycling,
       fabricating or packaging of products from previously prepared materials such as
       cloth, plastic, paper, glass, leather, metal, stone, canvas, bone, cellophane, cork,
          feather, fiber, shell, wax, wire, wood yards, and paint not employing a boiling
          process,
     2.   Assembly, rebuilding, repair and maintenance of motor vehicles, including
          Painting and upholstery.
     3.   Wood products manufacture but excluding paper and pulp manufacture and
          planing and lumber mill.
     4.   Retail or combination retail wholesale lumber and building materials yard, not
          including concrete mix.

Chapter 3 —- Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.510                                                                      Page 1 of 4

                                              LALO 3232)
            Building, building maintenance, plumbing, electrical, heating, roofing, glass,
            landscaping, painting or similar contractor's offices and equipment storage yard,
            or storage and rental of equipment commonly used by contractors.
            Welding, sheet metal or machine shop provided such use is wholly enclosed
  @

            within a building.
            Transfer company and trucking companies.
  SPOON

            Laundry and cleaning service industries.
            Circus, rodeo or like activity.
          . Similar manufacturing, repairing, fabricating, processing, parking or storage uses
            not listed above.
          . Feed and seed store conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building
       except that package material may be stored in an enclosed outside yard.
   12. Energy facilities and commercial energy facilities subject to the provisions of
           Chapter 19 (Standards for Energy Facilities).
   13. One mobile home for watchman's quarters in conjunction with a permitted or
           conditional use.

D. Uses Permitted Conditionally
           In the "RI" Rural Industrial zone, the following small scale low impact rural
           commercial and industrial uses and activities and their accessory buildings and
           uses may be permitted when authorized by the Approving Authority upon
           satisfactory demonstration of compliance with the standards of this Ordinance as
           required in Chapter 5 (Conditional Use Review), the applicable limit on
           commercial (3,500 square feet) or industrial (35,000 square feet) floor area, and
           this section:
           Any use permitted subject to site plan review or conditionally in the Rural
           Commercial zone.
           Primary or value added processing and/or sale of raw material produced in the
           rural vicinity of the proposal (NOTE: this type of activity is exempt from any small
           scale low impact commercial or industrial size limitation but may be subject to
           conditions imposed through the Conditional Use Review).
           Junk yard or automotive wrecking yard, enclosed in a view obscuring fence or
           wall.
           Recreation areas and facilities, including but not limited to: golf courses.
           Bulk storage of petroleum or gas.
           Operations conducted for the exploration, mining and processing of aggregate
           and other minerals as subsurface resources.
   7.      Concrete batching plants and the manufacture and sale of concrete products.
   8.      Campground as defined by OAR 660-033-0130
D. Property Development Standards
   1.      Property Size - The minimum property size shall be determined based on the
          amount of area required for proper sanitation, off-street parking, loading,
          maintenance of setbacks and compatibility with adjacent uses.
          Setbacks

Chapter 3 — Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.510
                                                                                     Page 2 of 4

                                               — F400 0¥32.(32)
              a.   Front Yard - No structure other than a fence or sign shall be located
                   closer than twenty-five (25) feet from the right-of-way of a public road
                   except where forty percent (40%) of the frontage is developed with
                   buildings having front yards with a variation of ten (10) feet in depth shall
                   establish the front yard depth of the entire frontage.
              b.   Side Yards - Where the side or rear of a lot or parcel in an "M-1" zone
                   abuts the an residential zone, there shall be a side or rear yard of not fess
                   than fifty (50) feet. In all cases, on a corner lot or parcel, there shall be a
                   side yard setback of at least ten (10) feet from exterior side property lines
                   for corner building sites. Where the side of a lot or parcel in the “RI” zone
                   abuts the side of an “A-1” zone, there shall be a side or rear lot setback of
                   100 feet from the common     property line.   In other cases, a side yard shall
                   not be required.
              c.   Rear Yard - No structure other than a fence shall be located closer than
                   twenty (20) feet from the rear yard property line unless a greater setback
                   is required next to an adjoining agricultural or residential zone in 2.b.
                   above.
    .   Vision Clearance - Vision clearance on corner properties shall be a minimum of
        thirty (30) feet.
        Height - Maximum height for all structures shall be forty-five (45) feet. Height is
        measured from average grade.
        Stream Setback - All structures, or similar permanent fixtures (except
        hydroelectric facilities) shall be set back from the high water line or mark along all
        streams or lakes a minimum distance of fifty (50) feet when measured
        horizontally at a right angle. Exception may be granted upon a demonstration
        that the proposed use will not have an adverse effect on streams or lakes.
        Signs - Except as is necessary for traffic safety, the following sign regulations
        shall apply to all uses:
        a.         Signs shall be limited to business identification and or goods and services
                   manufactured and or sold on the premises .
         b.        No sign shall project above the building.
        Cc.        Signs are permitted in a ratio of one square foot of sign area to each
                   linear foot of store frontage and shall be placed flat against the walls of
                   the buildings with the exception of athletic field scoreboards which shall
                   be the minimum size necessary for the intended purpose.
        d.         Signs shall not be placed upon walls or surfaces abutting an "A-1" or an
                   "R" zone.
        e.         Separate directional signs not to exceed an area of sixteen (16) square
                   feet are permitted on property of an Automobile Service Station or public
                   parking area, but must not project beyond the property line of such
                   establishment.
        f.         Flashing, digital, electronic, and LED (light emitting diode) signs shall be
                   Prohibited except as is necessary for athletic scoreboards.
        g.         Signs capable of movement shall be prohibited.
        h.         Signs advertising the sale or rental of the premise and temporary in
                   nature are permitted provided the sign is erected no closer than ten (10)
                   feet from the right-of-way of public road.

Chapter 3 — Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.510
                                                                                       Page 3 of 4
                                                (300Y-b0 226 335
    7.   Parking - Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4.
    8.   Lighting - Outdoor lighting shall be sited, limited in intensity, shielded and hooded
         in a manner that prevents the lighting from projecting onto adjacent properties,
         roadways waterways. The exterior of shielding and hooding materials shall be
         composed of non reflective opaque materials.
    9.   New Driveways — All new driveways which access a County road shall obtain a
         Road Approach Permit from the Wasco County Public Works Department.
    10. Outdoor Storage — Outdoor storage must be enclosed by a sight obscuring
        fence, wall, or landscaping; all of which shall be maintained.

Chapter 3 —- Wasco County Land Use and Development Ordinance
Section 3.510
                                                                                  Page 4 of 4

                                           f300¢- Of33-(35)