INTRODUCTION
WASCO COUNTY TITLE VI PLAN
Adopted March 15, 2023

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color and national
origin in programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance.

Wasco County passes through responsibility of transportation services to Mid -Columbia Economic
Development District (MCEDD) and is committed to ensuring that no person is excluded from
participation in, or denied the benefits of its programs and services on the basis of race, color, sex, or
national origin, as protected by Title VI in Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Circular 4702.1.B
TITLE VI COMPLAINT PROCEDURES
In order to comply with 49 CFR Section 21.9(b), Wasco County has developed procedures for investigating
and tracking Title VI complaints filed against them and make their procedures for filing a complaint
available to members of the public upon request. Complainants, or their representative, may file a written
complaint with the Title VI Complaint Coordinator at any time within one hundred and eighty (180) days
from the date of the alleged discriminatory act.

If you believe you have been subjected to discrimination under Title VI, you may file a complaint.
HOW TO FILE A TITLE VI COMPLAINT
You may file a signed, written complaint up to one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date of alleged
discrimination by delivering, mailing or faxing your complaint to Wasco County. The complaint should
include the following information:

 Your name, mailing address, and how to contact you (i.e., telephone number, email address, etc.)
 Name, address, phone number and relationship of Representative to Complainant, if applicable
 How, when, where and why you believe you were discriminated against. Include the  location,
names and contact information of any witnesses.

 Other information that you deem significant

The complaint may also be filed in writing with Wasco County at the following address:

Wasco County
ATTN: Title VI Complaint Coordinator
511 Washington St, Suite 101
The Dalles, OR 97058
WASCO COUNTY Page 2 of 8

By phone: 541-506-2520
By fax: 541-296-2551
NOTE: Wasco County encourages all complainants to certify all mail that is sent through the U.S. Postal
Service and/or ensure that all written correspondence can be tracked easily. For complaints originally
submitted by facsimile, an original, signed copy of the complaint must be mailed to the Title VI
Coordinator as soon as possible, but no later than 180 days from the alleged date of discrimination.

What happens to your complaint after it is submitted to Wasco County?
All complaints alleging discrimination based on race, color or national origin in a service or benefit
provided by Wasco County will be directly addressed by Wasco County. Wasco County provides for staff
to take complaints and forward them to the Title VI Complaint Coordinator (Office Administrator) who
categorizes, tracks them, and develops responses and forwards them to the Wasco County Administrator
for approval. The Administrator will investigate the complaint and make a determination. Formal
investigation of the complaint will be confidential and will include, but is not limited to, details of the
specific incident, frequency and dates of occurrences and names of any witnesses. Customer will be
notified of resolution.

Wasco County shall also provide appropriate assistance to complainants, including those persons with
disabilities, or who are limited in their ability to communicate in English. Additionally, Wasco County shall
make every effort to address all complaints in an expeditious and thorough mann er.

In instances where additional information is needed for investigation of the complaint, Wasco County will
contact the complainant in writing. Please note that in responding to any requests for additional
information, a complainant’s failure to provide the requested information within thirty (30) calendar days
may result in the administrative closure of the complaint.

Once sufficient information for investigating the complaint is received by Wasco County, a written
response will be drafted, subject to review by the County’s attorney. If appropriate, Wasco County’s
attorney may administratively close the complaint. In this case, Wasco County will notify the complainant
of the action as soon as possible.

How you will be notified of the outcome of your complaint:
Wasco County will send a final written response to the complainant and advise the complainant of his or
her right to 1) appeal within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of the final written decision from Wasco
County, and/or 2) file a complaint externally with the U.S. Department of Transportation and/or the
Federal Transit Administration. Every effort will be made to respond to Title VI complaints within 60
working days of receipt of such complaints, if not sooner.

A written appeal requesting review of a determination of unlawful denial of access or accommodation to
services must include the customer’s name, address, and telephone contact number. A statement of
reason(s) why the applicant believes the denial of accommodation request or access to s ervices was
inappropriate is recommended. The Wasco County Board of Commissioners will set a mutually agreed -
upon time and place for the review process with the applicant and/or representatives within 30 days of
the request. The applicant may submit documents or other information to be included with the record
WASCO COUNTY Page 3 of 8

and considered in the review process. Anyone needing special accommodations may contact Wasco
County at 541-296-2520 for assistance.

The right of the appellant to a prompt and equitable resolution of the complaint must not be impaired by
the appellant’s pursuit of other remedies, such as filing of a complaint with the Department of Justice or
other appropriate federal agency or the filing of a suit in state or federal court. Use of this procedure is
not a prerequisite to the pursuit of other remedies.

In addition to the complaint process described above, a complainant may file a Title VI complaint or
lawsuit with the following offices:
Federal Transit Administration Office of Civil Rights
Attention: Title VI Program Coordinator
East Building, 5th Floor – TCR
1200 New Jersey Ave., SE
Washington, DC 20590

Oregon Department of Transportation
Office of Civil Rights, MS 23
3930 Fairview Industrial Drive SE
Salem, OR 97302

U.S. Department of Justice
Civil Rights Division
Coordination and Review
Section – NWB
950 Pennsylvania Ave, NW
Washington, DC 20530

Disposition of Complaints and Resolution
Sustained Complaints- If the complaint is substantiated and a probable cause of a discriminatory practice
based on race, color, or national origin is found to exist, Wasco County shall endeavor to eliminate said
practice by means of a Remedial Action Plan. The Remedial Plan shall include: a list of all corrective
actions accepted by the agency; description of how the corrective action will be implemented; and a
written assurance that the agency will implement the accepted corrective action in the manner discussed
in the plan.

Unsustained Complaints- If there is insufficient evidence to either prove or disprove the allegation(s) both
parties to the complaint will be informed of the reason(s) for this disposition.

Unfounded Complaint- If it is determined that an act reported pursuant to this policy/procedure did not
in fact occur, a finding of unfounded shall be made.
WASCO COUNTY Page 4 of 8

Exonerated Complaints- If it is determined that an act reported pursuant to this policy/procedure did in fact occur, but
was lawful and proper within the guidelines established herein, a finding of exonerated shall be made.

Recording Title VI Investigations, Complaints and Lawsuits
In order to comply with 49 CFR Section 21.9(b), Wasco County prepares and maintains a list of any active i nvestigations
conducted by entities other than the FTA, lawsuits, or complaints naming Wasco County that allege discrimination on the
basis of race, color, or national origin. This list includes the date of the investigation, lawsuit, or complaint was file d; a
summary of the allegation(s); the status of the investigation, lawsuit, or complaint; and actions taken by the recipient in
response to the investigation, lawsuit, or complaint. The Wasco County Title VI Complaint Coordinator (Office
Administrator) maintains these files until closed. The Wasco County Title VI Complaint Coordinator will also maintain a
log of all complaints received. Records will be stored according to state and federal record retention requirements.
Tracked information will be reported to ODOT as the grantor of the funds as required.

Additional Information Upon Request
At the discretion of FTA, information other than that required by the referenced circular may be requested, in
writing, from Wasco County in order to investigate complaints of discrimination or to resolve concerns about
possible noncompliance with Title VI requirements. The Wasco County Title VI Complaint Coordinator is available to
provide additional information as needed and to respond to any inquiry.

BOARD COMPOSITION AND MINORITY REPRESENTATION ON NON-ELECTED BODIES
Wasco County is overseen by a Board of Commissioners, and the table depicting the membership of this Board as of
March 2023 is below:

Not Hispanic or Latino

Hispanic or Latino
Population (2020 Census) 21,653 5017
Wasco County Board of Commissioners
3

Of Those Who Are Not Hispanic or Latino

White Alone
Black or
African
American
Alone

Asian Alone

Native
Hawaiian
Alone
American
Indian or
Alaskan
Native
Alone
Some Other
Race Alone
Two or
more races
Population (2020
Census) 18,703 115 248 185 983 110 1309
Wasco County
Board of
Commissioners

WASCO COUNTY Page 5 of 8

For the Board of Commissioners and Committees advising the Wasco County Board and transportation operations,
Wasco County encourages participation of minorities on the Board and committees in the following manners:

 Posting information about the ability to participate on our website, through our social  media platforms and
through our newsletter.

 Sending press releases to the local newspapers in our regional service area.
 Conducting direct outreach to organizations and agencies representing the interests of minority populations
and/or providing direct services to minority individuals.

RECORD OF TITLE VI OR OTHER CIVIL RIGHTS INVESTIGATIONS, COMPLAINTS OR LAWSUITS
To date, there have been no Title VI investigations, complaints or lawsuits.

LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY PLAN
Wasco County is committed to breaking down language barriers by implementing consistent standards of language
assistance across its service area. Wasco County leverages the MCEDD updated Limited English Proficiency Plan as part of
our Title VI policy, which can be found on their website.

NOTIFYING BENEFICIARIES OF THEIR RIGHTS UNDER TITLE VI
Our website includes our Title VI policy and complaint form. The website also states the Anti- Discrimination Statement
as listed in this plan. Wasco County’s Title VI policy and complaint form are also posted at Wasco County’s office (located
at 511 Washington St, Suite 101, The Dalles, OR). The Title VI Compliance Statement is included in rider guides and bus
schedules as appropriate. Finally, the Title VI Compliance Statement is posted inside vehicles used for public
transportation. Individuals who believe they have been discriminated against may request a complaint form from the
Office Administrator at Wasco County’s office.

ANALYSIS OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
Over the last three years Wasco County has not completed a construction project requiring an
environmental assessment (EA) or environmental impact statement (EIS).

INCLUSIVE PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Community Outreach is a requirement of Title VI. Wasco County and its sub -recipients shall seek out and consider the
viewpoints of minority and low-income populations in the course of conducting public outreach. Specific information
about MCEDD’s programs can be found in their Title VI policy.

ANTI-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT/TITLE VI POLICY
Anti-Discrimination Statement: Wasco County is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Public
Transportation services are available to all without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, gender identity,
religion, age, height, weight, disability, political beliefs, sexual orientation, marital status, family status or veteran st atus.

Declaración de Anti-discriminación: Wasco County y son empleadores de acción afirmativa e igualdad de oportunidades.
Servicios de transporte públicos son disponibles a todos sin importar raza, color, origen nacional, genero, identidad de
genero, religión, edad, altura, peso, incapacidad, creencias políticas, orientación sexual, estado de matrimonio , estado
familiar o si es veterano de guerra.
WASCO COUNTY Page 6 of 8

Wasco County’s Title VI policy and complaint form are posted on the Wasco County website
(http://co.wasco.or.us) and at Wasco County’s offices (located at 511 Washington Street, The Dalles, OR).
Individuals who believe they have been discriminated against may request a complaint form from the
Office Administrator at Wasco County’s office.

Ref: FTA Circular 4702.1B Title VI and Title VI Dependent Guidelines for Federal Transit Administration
Recipients

Purpose

The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines to effectively monitor and ensure that Wasco County
is in compliance with all FTA Title VI requirements and regulations in order to carry out the provisions of
the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) Title VI Regulations at 49 CFR Part 21.

Authorities

Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, provides that no per son in the United States shall, on
the grounds of race, color, national origin, or sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal
financial assistance.

Policy Statement

Wasco County assures that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, or sex, as
provided by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, be excluded from participation in, be
denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination under any program or activity. Wasco
County is committed to creating and maintaining programs and services that are free of all forms of
discrimination.

Responsibilities

All employees of Wasco County shall follow the intent of these guidelines in a manner that reflects the
organization’s policy. Employees receiving information regarding violations of this order shall determine if
there is any basis for the allegation and shall proceed with resolution as stated in the sections Employee
Responsibility and/or Investigation of Complaints and Appeal Process.

Certification and Assurance

To ensure accordance with 49 CFR Section 21.7, every application for financial assistance from FTA must
be accompanied by an assurance that the applicant will carry out the program in compliance with Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This requirement shall be fulfilled when the applicant submits its annual
certifications and assurances to FTA. The text of FTA’s annual certifications and assurances is available on
FTA’s Web site. Wasco County complies with this instruction annually in order to receive FTA funding.

NOTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE VI
In order to comply with 49 CFR Section 21.9 (d) MCEDD has posted inf ormation for the public regarding
the Title VI obligations and protections against discrimination afforded to the public by Title VI on the
Wasco County website. Wasco County has also posted the following notice of compliance with Title VI,
WASCO COUNTY Page 7 of 8

which is visible to the public at the Wasco County office and directs the public to the Wasco County
website and to the appropriate phone number to inquire for more information. Additionally, this
information is available upon request.

Notification of Compliance with Title VI

Wasco County complies with Title VI and Title VI Dependent Guidelines for Federal Transit Administration
Recipients. Title VI obligations and protections against discrimination afforded to the public by Title VI can
be found on the Wasco County website at http://www.co.wasco.or.us. This information is also available
upon request, please inquire inside office or contact Title VI Complaint Coordinator at (541) 506 -2520.

Notificación de la conformidad con Title VI

Wasco County se conforma con las pautas dependientes del Title VI y del Title VI para los recipientes
federales de la administración del tránsito. Las obligaciones y las protecciones del Title VI contra la
discriminación producida al público por Title VI se pueden encontrar en el Web site de Wasco County en
http://www.co.wasco.or.us. Esta información está también disponible a petición, investiga por favor
dentro de oficina o entra en contacto con a coordinador de la queja del Title VI en (541) 506-2520.

APPROVED this 15th day of March, 2023.

Wasco County Board of Commissioners

______________________________
Steven D. Kramer, Chair

______________________________
Scott C. Hege, Vice-Chair

______________________________
Philip L. Brady, County Commissioner