FILED WASCO        CTY
                                                                         THE DALLES        OR.
                     IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                                                           Jun 27                      47 Pi OL
                            IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO
 i]

       IN THE MATTER OF AUTHORIZING AN)                         Kan 5 BERK
 WD

       INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT)                   ORDINANCE         ;
 HR

       CREATING THE QUALITYLIFE         )
       INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGENCY.         )
 Dan

              WHEREAS, Wasco County (“County”), a political subdivision of the State

       of Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution and ORS Chapter 203, is
 ony

       engaged in the provision of general local governmental services within Wasco
 wo

       County; and
10
              WHEREAS,     County operations require telecommunications capabilities for
11
       the efficient provision of local government services; and
12
13            WHEREAS,     the County further desires to promote economic growth and

14     the expansion or addition of business and industry within its service territory and
15     the Mid-Columbia Gorge community through the development of
16     telecommunications infrastructure and related programs; and
17
              WHEREAS, the County intends to further its economy and efficiency by
18
       forming by Intergovernmental Agreement between Wasco County, a political
19
       subdivision of the State of Oregon formed under the Oregon Constitution and
20
at     ORS Chapter 203; the Northern Wasco County People’s Utility District, an

22     Oregon People’s Utility District formed under ORS Chapter 261; the Port of
23     The Dalles, an Oregon Municipal Corporation formed under ORS Chapter 777;
24
       and the City of The Dalles, Oregon, an Oregon Municipal Corporation (each of
25
       which is referred to herein individually as a “Party” and collectively as the
26
Page

                                       frcol -0a/Y                                      (1)
       “Parties”), an intergovernmental entity to be known as the Qualitylife

       Intergovernmental Agency (“Qualitylife IGA”); and
 nS

              WHEREAS, the Parties intend to use any authority delegated to the
w

       Qualitylife IGA to further the economy and efficiency of each Party by the design,
 fF

       construction, ownership, operation and maintenance of a telecommunications
 a
 aA

       network for the benefit of Wasco County and the Mid-Columbia Gorge
 nN

       community; and
 oOo

              WHEREAS,      each of the Parties has taken, or is expected to take in the
 wo

10     immediate future, all actions required under applicable acts, charters and law to

11     authorize the execution and performance of the Agreement through which
12     Qualitylife IGA will be created.
13                                                                                 COUNTY.
              NOW, THEREFORE, !T IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY WASCO
14
               1.     It is the intent of Wasco County to create the Qualitylife
15
               Intergovernmental Agency (“Qualitylife IGA’) pursuant to ORS 190.003
16
17            through ORS     190.265 by Intergovernmental Agreement, a copy of which

18             is attached hereto as Exhibit A (‘Agreement’), between the following

19             parties: Wasco County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon
20             formed under the Oregon Constitution and ORS Chapter 203; the
21
               Northern Wasco County People’s Utility District, an Oregon People’s Utility
22
               District formed under ORS Chapter 261; the Port of The Dalles, an
23
24             Oregon Municipal Corporation formed under ORS Chapter 777 (‘Port’);

25             and the City of The Dalles, Oregon, an Oregon Municipal Corporation.

26             2.     The effective date of the Agreement is July 16, 2001.
Page

                                                                cot-oot (nt)
              3.     The public purposes for which the Qualitylife IGA is created are to

              use the authority vested in the Qualitylife |GA to meet the
 YL

              telecommunications needs of each individual Party and to promote
 WY

              economic growth and the expansion or addition of business and industry
 SF
 oOo

              within Wasco County and the Mid-Columbia Gorge community through the
 DOD

              development of an advanced telecommunications infrastructure and
 NY

              related programs.
 aoa

              4.     To carry out its public purposes, the Qualitylife GA shall have the
  yp

              powers, duties and functions set forth in the Agreement.
ESE

              5.     The creation of the Qualitylife IGA pursuant to an Agreement

              substantially in the form of the Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A is
BH

              hereby ratified and approved and the County Court is authorized to

              execute and deliver on behalf of Wasco County an Agreement in
Baur

              substantially such form.

              6.     Immediate action being necessary to carry out the Qualitylife IGA

              public purposes on an economic and efficient basis, an emergency is
Ge

              declared to exist and this Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its

               execution by the County.
6
&§

       fit
Sb

       TN
&©

       Aut
one

       Tlf

       Milt
i]
a

Page

                                                      vol- Oot Cr
              ADOPTED at a meeting of the County Court of Wasco County, Oregon

       held on June 27th, 2001.
 WH
 Ee

                                                n Mabrey, County Jyp6
                                        MAT A
 eH
 DOD
 NN

                                             Scott McKay, County Commissiner
 ao
 wo

                                                 Alboontk
10                                           Dan Ericksen, County Commissioner

11     ATTEST:
12
        Porn.             NMbide
13
       Kathy McBride
14     Clerk of the Court

15     APPROVED AS TO FORM:
16
17                          e

       Eric   Jv Nisley
18     Wasco County District Attorney

19
20
21

22
23
24
25
26
Page
                                                                                 FILED WASCO        CTY
Ol-604%                                                   THE DALLES OR.
 Dram                  INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT CREATING         AH Gl
                                              INTERGOVERNMENTAL              AGENCY        id 39
   a                 THE   QUALITYLIFE

                                                                                              ERE     oy
            THIS INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT CREATING THK QUART
                                                              betw, DUNT
     INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGENCY (Agency) is entered into by and
                                                                                         undér Bes
    parties: the Northern Wasco County People’s Utility District, an Oregon PUB ormed
                                                                                       formed
    Chapter 261 (“NWPUD”); the Port of The Dalles, an Oregon municipal corporation
                                                                                       of Oregon
    under ORS Chapter 777 (“Port”); Wasco County, a political subdivision of the State
                                                                                 the City of The
    formed under the Oregon Constitution and ORS Chapter 203 (“County”); and
                                                                            is referred to herein
    Dalles, Oregon, an Oregon municipal corporation (“City”) (each of which
    individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties”).

                                                RECITALS:

    A.      WHEREAS, the Parties hereto are authorized to enter into this Agreement creating an
                                                                                                to
           intergovernmental agency pursuant to their respective principal acts and ORS 190.003
           190.265;

    B.     WHEREAS, NWPUD           is a consumer-owned utility engaged in the generation, distribution
           and sale of electric energy;

    Cc.    WHEREAS, NWPUD requires telecommunications capabilities for the efficient
                                                                                                l
           management of electric load, conservation, acquisition and distribution of electrica
           energy and other utility purposes;

                                                                                        or
    Dz.     WHEREAS, NWPUD further desires to promote economic growth and the expansion
                                                                                          umbia Gorge
           addition of business and industry within its service territory and the Mid-Col
                                                                                             related
           community through the development of telecommunications infrastructure and
           programs;
                                                                                    of port
    E.     WHEREAS, the Port is engaged in the ownership, operation and maintenance
           facilities in Wasco County;

    F,     WHEREAS, the Port requires telecommunications capabilities for the efficient
           management of Port facilities;

                                                                                     the
    G.     WHEREAS, the Port further desires to promote economic development through
           development of telecommunications infrastructure and related programs;

    H.      WHEREAS, the County is engaged in the provision of general local governmental
            services within Wasco County;
                                                                                       the
    L       WHEREAS, the County operations require telecommunications capabilities for

                                                              favel- cared Ly)
     1 - AGREEMENT
      efficient provision of local governmental services;

      WHEREAS, the County further desires to promote economic and community
                                                                                   the
      development within Wasco County and the Mid-Columbia Gorge community through
      development of telecommunications infrastructure and related programs;
                                                                                  services
      WHEREAS, the City is engaged in the provision of general local governmental
      within Wasco County;

                                                                           the efficient
      WHEREAS, City operations require telecommunications capabilities for
      provision of local governmental services;

                                                                          development
      WHEREAS, the City further desires to promote economic and community
                                                                                   ment
      within Wasco County and the Mid-Columbia Gorge community through the develop
      of telecommunications infrastructure and related programs,

                                                                           their respective
      WHEREAS, the Parties intend to further the economy and efficiency of
      units of local government by forming an intergovernmental agency;
                                                                                               any or
      WHEREAS, pursuant to ORS 190.010, an intergovernmental agency may perform
                                                                                             , has
      all functions and activities that a Party to an Agreement, or its officers or agencies
      the authority to perform;

                                                                                   ife
      WHEREAS, the Parties intend to use any authority delegated to the Qualityl
                                                                          y  and  efficien cy of
      Intergovernmental Agency (as defined herein) to further the econom
                                                                               nance of a
      each Party by the design, construction, ownership, operation and mainte
                                                                     and the Mid-Co  lumbia
      telecommunications network for the benefit of Wasco County
      Gorge community;
                                                4
                                                                                     acts,
      WHEREAS, each of the Parties has taken all actions required under applicable
      charters and law to authorize the execution and performance of this Agreement;

                                                                              y, terms, and
R.    WHEREAS, the Parties intend by this Agreement to set forth the authorit
                                                                             will act;
      conditions pursuant to which the Qualitylife Intergovernmental Agency

NOW, THEREFORE,       THE PARTIES agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE 1
                  QUALITYLIFE INTERGOVERNMENTAL                       AGENCY

                                                                                 ife
1.1   Qualitylife Intergovernmental Agency. There is hereby created the Qualityl
                                                                                     The parties
      Intergovernmental Agency (“Qualitylife Intergovernmental Agency”) “IGA”.
      to the IGA are NWPUD, the Port, the County, and the City.

2 - AGREEMENT

                                                          fa00/- Cov/ tn)
                           The effective date of this Agreement is                  , 2001.
1.2    Effective Date.

13.    General Powers.      The IGA shall have the following general powers:

                                                                           such bylaws, rules,
         1.3.1 To adopt, through action of its Board (as defined herein),
                                                                           ent,
regulations, and policies necessary to further the purposes of this Agreem

                                                                             and maintain a
        1.3.2    To study the best method to design, construct, own, operate
                                                                          lumbia Gorge
telecommunications network for the benefit of Wasco County and the Mid-Co
Community;

                                                                                                ORS
        1.3.3.   To perform and exercise, pursuant to the principal acts of the Parties or by
                                                                             or state or federal law
190.003 to 190.265, all powers pursuant to applicable charter, ordinance,
                                                                        construct, own, operate and
which are necessary or desirable to efficiently and effectively design,
                                                                             and the Mid-Columbia
maintain a telecommunications network for the benefit of Wasco County
Gorge community.

                                                                                  s, or right of way
        1.3.4    To purchase, own, hold, appropriate, and condemn land, facilitie
                                                                       in furtherance of the
either in its own name or in the name of the individual Parties hereto
                                                                          network for the
construction, ownership, operation or maintenance of a telecommunications
benefit of Wasco County and the Mid-Columbia Gorge community.
                                                                                        purpose of
        1.3.5    To enter into agreements with other public or private entities for the
                                                                      mmunications network in
design, construction, ownership, operation or maintenance of a teleco
Wasco County and the Mid-Columbia Gorge community.
                                                                           other forms of
        1.3.6 To issue, sell or otherwise dispose of bonds, securities, or
                                                                        288.805 to ORS 288.945;
indebtedness, including the power to issue revenue bonds under ORS

        1.3.7    To adopt and implement an annual budget.     The adoption of an annual budget shall
                                                                              work plan and an
require unanimous vote of the Board. The Board shall provide for an annual
                                                                              services to further
estimate of expenses for the next fiscal year. Each Party may provide in-kind
the purposes of the IGA as each Party deems necessary or desirable.      Such in-kind services shall
                                                                se agreed.
not be reimbursed from the IGA or other Parties, unless otherwi

                                                                                              ry or
         1.3.8  To hire and discharge employees, by majority vote of the Board, as is necessa
                                                                        which such authorit may
                                                                                           y
desirable to economically and efficiently develop and operate the IGA
be delegated to management of the IGA; and

                                                                                              ual
        13.9     To exercise all powers pursuant to the applicable acts or law of the individ
                                                                         develop and operate the
Parties which are necessary or desirable to economically and efficiently

3 - AGREEMENT

                                                           fv0!- OMY ee,
        1.4     Meetings. Meetings of the IGA shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the Oregon Public Meetings Law, ORS 192.610 to 192.710.

        1.5     Offices.   The principal offices of the IGA shail be located at NWPUD offices,
2345 River Road, The Dalles, OR 97058.

        1.6     Fiscal Year. The fiscal year for the agency shall be July 1 through June 30.

        1.7   Start-Up Costs.      IGA shall reimburse NWPUD for all outside expenses, including
                                                                                              of
but not limited to legal and professional services, incurred in connection with the formation
the IGA.

        1.8   Several Liability.    Unless as otherwise expressly agreed in writing, there shall be no
joint and several liability of the Parties either in contract or tort and all obligations of the IGA or
                                                                                                   be
the Parties shall be several only. Without limiting the foregoing, no Party to the IGA shall
                                                                                    other wrongful
liable for damages, debts or claims caused solely by the negligent act, omission or
                                                                                               or
act by the IGA or other Parties. The Party causing damage by its sole negligent act, omission
wrongful act shall be individually liable.

                                         ARTICLE IT
                                GOVERNANCE AND MEMBERSHIP

         2.1 Board of Directors. The IGA shall be governed by a Board of Directors (“Board”).
                                                                                            one (1)
The governing body of each Party shall appoint one (1) representative to the Board and
                                                                                    only  during  the
alternate representative. An alternate representative shall act in a Board capacity
                                                                                        shall serve at
absence of that Party’s representative. Representatives and alternate representatives
                                                                                               body
the pleasure of their respective governing bodies. In the event of a vacancy, the governing
of the Party that appointed the departed representative shall appoint  a successor.

                                                                                              its
       2.2 Officers. After the effective date of this Agreement, the Board shall elect from
                                                                                       “Officers”)
membership a President, a Vice President, and a Secretary/Treasurer (collectively, the
who shall serve a term consisting of the remainder of 2001 and the following calendar year.
                                                                                    from its
Thereafter, annually, at the beginning of each calendar year, the Board shall elect
membership Officers who shall serve as a term of one (1) year. Officers shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board or until their successor shall be appointed and take office.

                 2.2.1 Duties of President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the IGA
and shall submit such recommendations and information as she or he may determine appropriate
                                                                                              of the
to discuss at the IGA meeting. The President shall perform the duties and responsibilities
IGA in accordance with the obligations and limitations set forth in this Agreement. The
President shall not otherwise hold herself or himself out to have the authority to bind the
members of the IGA to any financial or other obligations.

4 - AGREEMENT

                                                               Pavor- OY uy)
                2.2.2 Duties of Vice President. The Vice President shall perform the duties of
                                                                                    resignation or
the President in the absence or the incapacity of the President. In the case of the
                                                                                          until such
the death of the President, the Vice President shall perform the duties of the President
time as the Board shall elect a new President.

                 2.2.3 Secretary/Treasurer. The Secretary/Treasurer shall keep the minutes and
                                                                                     y/Treasurer.
the official records of the IGA and perform such other duties required of a Secretar
                                                                           or all funds of the IGA.
The Secretary/Treasurer shall be responsible for the fiscal administration
                                                                              act as co-signers of
The Secretary/Treasurer and either the President or the Vice President shall
                                                                             delegate the
checks drawn upon the accounts of the IGA. The Secretary/Treasurer may
                                                                                  need not be on the
administrative functions of her or his office to another person or persons who
Board.

                2.2.4 Additional Duties. The Officers of the IGA shall perform such other
                                                                             or other rules and
duties and functions as may from time to time be required by the IGA bylaws,
regulations.

       2.3 Voting Rights. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the
Board shall exercise its voting rights in the following manner:
                                                                                           to
                2.3.1 Manner of Acting. A majority vote of the Board shall be necessary
                                                                              to decide financial
decide any issue except that a unanimous vote of the Board shall be required
                                                                            t to Section 2.3.3, for
matters described in Section 2.3.2, for the addition of new members pursuan
                                                                                   2.5.2, and
the acceptance of or amendment to the scope of work pursuant to Sections 2.5.1 and
for the dissolution of the IGA pursuant to Section 3.1;

                2.3.2 Financial Matters. Any decision of IGA involving the procurement of
                                                                                 obligation,
goods or services outside the adopted budget, or the incurrence of any financial
                                                                      indebtedness, exclusive of
including the issuance or sale of bonds, securities or other forms of
                                                                            of each individual
expenditures within the budget, shall require the affirmative authorization
                                                                              e or other binding
Party to be bound, such authorization to be expressed by resolution, ordinanc
                                                                               ing such actions
commitment of the Party’s governing body. Parties not affirmatively authoriz
                                                                                 the budget shall
shall in no instances be liable. The procurement of goods and services outside
                                                                                   onment of fees,
be performed by resolution or separate agreement which specifies (1) the apporti
                                                                                             such
costs, or revenue derived from the functions and activities; and (2) the manner in which
                                                                             may not involve
revenue shall be accounted for. Such resolution or separate agreement may or
                                                                                                for a
the participation of the IGA; however, such participation of the IGA shall not create liability
Party that has not affirmatively authorized such action;

                 2.3.3.     NewMembers.     The Board may authorize a new Party to join the IGA
only if approvedby a unanimous vote of the Board;

         2.4   Insurance.    The IGA shall provide for adequate insurance to cover the directors,

                                                            facot- bar,
5 - AGREEMENT
officers, employees, staff, agents and activities undertaken by the IGA.

          2.5   Scope of Work.   A scope of work shall be presented for each specific task or
                                                                                                The
project, not previously approved and adopted in the budget, to be undertaken by the IGA.
scope of the work shall contain a reasonably detailed description of the activities to be
                                                                                                  of
undertaken by IGA, a description of any necessary contractual arrangements, an itemization
                                                                               in-kind services and
the costs to be incurred in pursuing these activities, an allocation of costs,
                                                                                                  e,
ownership interest in the Project among the participating Parties, a plan for project governanc
an estimate of the expected revenues from such activities and an allocation of such     revenues
among the participating Parties.

                2.5.1 Acceptance. Each scope of work shall be negotiated on a case-by-case
basis and if approved by each Party shall be attached as an addendum to this Agreement.

                  2.5.2   Amendments.   No change in a scope of work shall occur without each
Party’s written consent.

                                         ARTICLE Ill
                                   TERM AND TERMINATION

         3.1 Term. The term of this Agreement shall be perpetual unless, by a unanimous vote,
the Parties act to dissolve the IGA.

                 3.1.1. Dissolution. Upon dissolution, each Party to the IGA on the date of
dissolution shall remain liable solely for its individual share of any IGA expenditure that has
been specifically incurred by the Party in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or by
other resolutions or separate agreements of the Party. Upon dissolution, the assets of the IGA
shall be distributed to the members on the basis of the rights and obligations of each party to the
assets held as of the date of the dissolution.

        3.2 Voluntary Withdrawal by a Party. Any Party may elect to terminate their
participation in this Agreement and withdraw from the IGA by giving written notice to the
President and each member of the IGA. Withdrawal shall be effective forty-five (45) days from
the date of notice. The withdrawing Party shall continue to pay its apportioned share of, or be
responsible for, any debt attributable to that Party incurred prior to the Party’s written notice of
withdrawal, and shall hold harmless the remaining Parties and the IGA for those financial
responsibilities and obligations attributable solely to the withdrawing Party.

ee   KF
ee
eR K
eR   EK
ee   EH

 |                                                                2.00/- 0014
                                                                                                       Ov)
                                             ARTICLE IV
                                        DISPUTE RESOLUTION

        4.1   Dispute Resolution.       Ifa dispute arises between the Parties or between the IGA and
the Parties regarding breach of this Agreement or interpretation of any term of this Agreement,
the Parties shall first attempt to resolve the dispute by negotiation, followed by binding
arbitration if negotiation fails to resolve the dispute.

                 4.1.1   Negotiation.    The Board Member or other persons designated by each of
the disputing Parties will negotiate on behalf of the Parties they represent.   The nature of the
dispute shall be reduced to writing and shall be presented to each of the disputing Parties who
shall then meet and attempt to resolve the issue. If the dispute is resolved at this step, there shall
be a written determination of such resolution, signed by each disputing Party and ratified by the
IGA which shall be binding upon the Parties.

                 4.1.2   Binding Arbitration. If the dispute cannot be resolved by negotiation
within forty-five (45) days, the parties shall submit the matter to binding arbitration. The Parties
shall attempt to agree on an arbitrator. If they cannot agree upon an arbitrator within ten (10)
days, the Parties shall submit the matter of determining an arbitrator to the Presiding Judge of the
Wasco County Circuit Court. The common costs of the arbitration shall be borne equally by the
Parties. Each Party must bear its individual costs and fees.

                                              ARTICLE V
                                             AMENDMENT

        5.1   This Agreement may be amended by mutual written agreement of the Parties,
signed by all of the Parties.

                                            ARTICLE VI
                                        GENERAL PROVISIONS

        6.1   Merger. This Agreement embodies the entire agreement and understanding between
the Parties relating to the formation of the IGA hereto and supersedes all prior agreements and
understandings relating to the subject matter hereof.

        6.2 Severability. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement
should be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality, and
enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or
impaired thereby.

        6.3   Notice.    Any notice herein required or permitted to be given shall be given in
writing, shall be effective when actually received, and may be given by hand delivery or by
certified mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to the Parties as follows:

1 - AGREEMENT                                              heo ya Cant td
 Dwight Langer, General Manager                          Scott Hege, Manager                              John Mabrey
 Northern Wasco County People’s                          Port of The Dalles                               Wasco County Judge
 Utility District                                        3636 Klindt Drive                                Wasco County
                                                         The Dalles, OR 97058                             Courthouse
 2345 River Road
The Dalles, OR 97058                                                                                      511 Washington
                                                                                                          The Dalles, OR 97058

Nolan Young
City Manager
City of The Dalles
313 Court
The Dalles, OR 97058.

                                                                                               and
        6.4 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts
                                                                                       t between
by the parties on separate counterparts, any one of which shall constitute an agreemen
and among the Parties.

                                                                                     set
        6.5 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement by the date
forth opposite their names below.

                   c

Lgl                     fog pic                                Date:              Why                     ROO,”
Dwight       Anger,    General       Manager                                            !                              oe
                                                                                                                     Oe
Northern Wasco County People’s
Utility District
                                                                                                                    UNDALWILSON gS   y
                                                                                                             NOTARY PR
STATE OF OREGON)                                                                                              COMeS DEC OR 20h
                             ) ss.
County of Wasco              )
                                                              vy                    May                       , 2001, by
         SIGNED OR ATTESTED                    before me this —    day of

                                                        alu                 Xx,             WE
                                                        Notary Public for Oregon
                                                        My Commission Expires:                                (al

  Apatt Nhowg.r                                                Date:    ay                       2,       20]
Chairman                 ,                                                          ?                 ,
Port of The Dalles
   lieL-
 Secretary         J
 Port of TheDalles

 STATE OF OREGON)
                       ) ss.
 County of Wasco       )

        SIGNED OR ATTESTED before me this                  2. day of _ 7774 Va                          __, 2001, by
Let(2        }¢p-9i5 _, Chairman, Port eee                                /
                                                          Aden
                                                  Notary Public for Oregon
                                                  My Commission Expites: Vee: (2.5, fos

                                                                                            DAL        a                “ti
                                                                                                        OREGON
 STATE OF OREGON)                                                                                       304935
                       ) ss.                                                                            CHS.       200)   %
                                                                                                        se eset!
 County of Wasco       )

        SIGNED OR ATTESTED before me this 2-day of ‘77/4 7                                                     , 2001, by

                                                      le                                                            |
iY 4 Lutte       te    , Secretary, Port of      The Da

                                                 Notary Public for Oregon
                                                 My Commission Expires:                           ore          30, }

         LL. 2                     y                        Date:        Thee                 2,200 |
                                                                                  ke              3.292
                                                                             ~“Sefiolat SEAL
        County Judge                                                           LINDA L WILSON
                                                                     ik p. NOTARY   PUBLIC-OREGON
                                                                            SOMN'SSION NC.204935
 STATE OF OREGON)
                       ) ss.
County of Wasco        )

        SIGNED OR ATTESTED             before me this      2.        day of ANAL                                        , 2001, by
John Mabrey for Wasco County Court.               ~              .            y                    }
                                                          wha           of             rf          >
                                                 Notary Public for Oregon                                      ,
                                                 My Commission Expires: /2/a3/¢/

 9 - AGREEMENT

                                                                        favol — V4 (4)
                  hal  Dons                   Date: Tiee       2    208     |
 owe,
Robb Van Cleave, Mayor
                                                            A EICIAL SEAL
City of The Dalles                                           DOA L WILSON
                                                    r NUTARY PUBLIC! ORE     GON
                                                           {AAMISSION NO.304935
                                                   jmMISSIOH EXPIRES DEC 03, 2001

STATE OF OREGON)
                    ) ss.
County of Wasco     )

                                                 day of                             , 2001, by
      SIGNED OR ATTESTED before me this
Robb Van Cleave, Mayor, City of The Dalles.

                                        Notary ee for Oregon
                                                                  2fos
                                                                 2/e3/0/
                                        My Commission Expires: L2fesfet

 ocaonetann                                      frvol- OME py)