IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF ong GH                     ED ary
                             IN AND FOR THE COUNTY OF WASCO
                                                                       2001 FEB 28     A ¥51

                                                                            LEBRETON COATS
                                                                     KARENCOUNTY
     IN THE MATTER OF THE WASCO COUNTY PLANNING                                  CLERK
     AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT’S REQUEST TO
     APPROVE THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE
     WASCO COUNTY NATIONAL SCENIC AREA ZONING             )
     ORDINANCE FIRE STANDARD TEXT TO REFLECT              )   ORDINANCE
     BEST AVAILABLE SCIENCE AND ACHIEVE BEST              )
     COMPATIBILITY WITH OREGON DEPARTMENT OF              )
     FORESTRY STANDARDS AND OREGON STATE FIRE             )
     CODE. (FILE NUMBER LUA-06-104)

             NOW ON THIS DAY, the above-entitled matter having come on regularly for

     consideration, said day being one duly set in term for the transaction of public business

     and a majority of the Court being present; and

             IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:         That the Wasco County Planning Department

     has requested amendments to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and

     Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available science and achieve

     best compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards and Oregon State fire

     code;

10           IT APPEARING TO THE COURT:         That on August 15, 2006, the Wasco County

11   Planning Department held a legally notified public workshop with the Wasco County

12   Planning Commission, at the Gorge Discovery Center, to review back ground

13   information and options for staff recommendations for the purpose of identifying

14   preferred options and any potential needs for additional information prior to hearing; and

15           IT APPEARING   TO THE COURT:       That on August 28, 2006, The Wasco County

16   Planning Department held a legally notified public workshop, at the Maupin Community

17   Center, to review back ground information and options for staff recommendations for the

     Page 1 - ORDER

                                                       Ltt — Oe                          (v5?
     purpose of identifying preferred options and any potential needs for additional

     information prior to hearing; and

            IT FURTHER APPEARING         TO THE COURT:      That on Tuesday, September 12,

     2006, the Wasco County Planning Commission met to conduct a legally notified public

     hearing on the above matter.    Following receipt and review of evidence, the

     Commission deliberated and, on a vote of 6 to 0 (1 Position Vacant) voted to elevate the

     request for amendments to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and

     Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available science and achieve

     best compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards and Oregon State fire

10   code to the Wasco County Court with no recommendation; and

11          IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That the Wasco County Court met

12   at the hour of 10:00 a.m. on Wednesday,    November 1, 2006, in the Wasco County

13   Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, in The Dalles, Oregon, for a

14   legally notified review of the Wasco County Planning Department's request for

15   amendments to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and Development

16   Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available science and achieve best

17   compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards and Oregon State fire code.

18   A valid procedural challenge was made and the hearing was rescheduled to

19   December 13, 2006; and

20          IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT:              That the Wasco County Court met

21   at the hour of 10:30 a.m. on Wednesday,    December 13, 2006, in the Wasco County

22   Courtroom, Room 202, of the Wasco County Courthouse, in The Dalles, Oregon, for a

23   legally notified review of the Wasco County Planning Department's request for

     Page 2 - ORDER

                                                              (3007-008                 (us)
     amendments to the Wasco County National Scenic Area Land Use and Development

     Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available science and achieve best

     compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards and Oregon State fire code.

     The Court reviewed the record, heard the Staff recommendation and all relevant

     testimony from the parties, then continued the hearing to the hour of 8:00 a.m. on

     Wednesday, December 20, 2006 in Room 202 of the Wasco County Courthouse; and

            IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE COURT : The County Court met at the hour

     of 8:00 a.m. on Wednesday, December 20, 2006 in Room 202 of the Wasco County

     Courthouse, considered the matter, and based upon the prior testimony, the Court,

10   being fully apprised in the premises, voted 3 - 0 to approve the siting standards,

11   defensible space standards, and construction Standards, voted 2 -1 to approve the

12   water standards, and voted 2 -1 to approve the access standards, regarding the Wasco

13   County Planning Department's request for amendments to the Wasco County National

14   Scenic Area Land Use and Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best

15   available science and achieve best compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry

16   standards and Oregon State fire code, as laid out in Attachment A; and

17          NOW THEREFORE         IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:        That the request by the Wasco

18   County Planning Department for amendments to the Wasco County National Scenic

19   Area Land Use and Development Ordinance fire standards text to reflect best available

20   science and achieve best compatibility with Oregon Department of Forestry standards

21   and Oregon State fire code is approved.

22

23

     Page 3 - ORDER

                                                              03.07 0080 (4D)
           ADOPTED this 20" day of December, 2006.

2          SIGNED this 27th day of February, 2007.

    Approved as to Form:

     Z.     -       oe
    Eric J-Tisley
    Wasco County District Attorney

                                                Seéctt   McKay, Commissioner

                                                 Show Wall: dvkae
                                                Sherry Hollid}, Commissioned

    Page 4 - ORDER
              DETAILED TABLE OF CONTENTS

           CHAPTER 11   FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS

SECTION                                                            PAGE
11.010    PURPOSE OF FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS                         11-4
11.020    APPLICIBILITY OF FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS    —              ‘111-2
11.030    INTRODUCTION                                             11-5
11.110    SITING STANDARDS — LOCATING STRUCTURES                   11-8
          FOR GOOD DEFENSIBILITY
11.120    DEFENSIBLE SPACE ~ CLEARING AND MAINTAINING              11-12
          A FIRE FUEL BREAK
11.130    CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS                     11-16
          AND STRUCTURES — DECREASING THE IGNITION
          RISKS BY PLANNING FOR A MORE FIRE-SAFE
          STRUCTURE
11.140    ACCESS STANDARDS ~ PROVIDING SAFE ACCESS                  11-20
          TO AND ESCAPE FROM YOUR HOME
11.150    FIRE PROTECTION OR ON-SITE WATER REQUIRED-            = 11-32
          ENSURING DWELLINGS HAVE SOME FIRE
          PROTECTION AVAILABLE THROUGH MANNED OR
          UNMANNED RESPONSE
11.210    FIRE SAFETY STANDARD   REVIEW PROCESS                    11-36
11.220    MODIFICATION OF FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS                    11-36
11.230    FIRE SAFETY MITIGATION PLAN                              11-37
11.240    REVIEW OF REQUESTED MODIFICATION(S)                      11-38

                                            Chapter 10-Fire Safety Standards

                                    O30097- 00k: C¥S.
OF009- 0082 (45)
                                                                                                 Page 11-1

                           CHAPTER 11      FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS

SECTION    11.010       Purpose of Fire Safety Standards:

A. To   inform   and     notify rural. residents that fire protection    services       are   limited    or
   nonexistent through much of Wasco County.

B. Encourage residents to become familiar with the structural fire protection district that
   will respond to their property (if there is one).

C. To notify them that the volunteer fire protection districts can only serve if they have
   sufficient trained volunteers to meet demands. Please consider volunteering.

D. To reduce threats to life, safety, property, and resources by improving access to and
   defensibility of development in rural areas.

E. To educate current and future property owners about fire safety standards and
   regulate fire standards in a manner that decreases review process where possible
   while communicating requirements as clearly as possible.

F. To provide flexibility where       necessary by providing for a review process that will
   allow modifications to fire safety standards where           necessary        with   comment         and
   recommendations from emergency responders.

G. To   establish      consistency   between   standards   currently    listed    in various      zones,
   Oregon Department of Forestry regulations, and best available science.

                                                      Pour cow Fes
Page 11-2

SECTION 11.020             Applicability of Fire Safety Standards

A. Applicability of Fire Safety Standards in Different Rural Zones:
   County Ordinances affect all rural zones (all zones outside an Urban Growth
   Boundary). All rural zones are subject to fire standards but the applicability of the
   specific standards varies by zone and by use type. Zoning terms used to classify
   groups of land use designations in the Fire Safety Standard Checklist, Sections
    11.110 to 11.150, are defined in the following tabie (any more specific distinctions
    based on parcel shape or specific zoning designation are also called out in the
    checklist):

 Zoning Classifications Referred to in the                       Fire   Safety ; Zones
 Standards Checklist, Sections 11.110-11.150
 All Zones — All rural              Exception Areas and Smaller Lot               RR-1, RR-2
 zones anywhere outside           | Residential - Exception areas with
 an adopted Urban                   smaller lot residential, rural commercial,
 Growth Boundary                    rural industrial or rural community land
                                    use designations.
                                    Resource Zones and Large Lot                  RR-5, RR-10, A-1, A-2
                                    Residential - Resource or recreation          F-1, F-3 & PR
                                    zones and rural residential areas with
                                    larger minimum lot sizes.

Please also work with the County Planning Department if you are permitting only an
accessory structure or replacing or adding onto an existing home, commercial, or
industrial     structure    and   they will help     you   determine    which    standards   apply to that
specific type of land use in accordance with (B) below.

B. Applicability of Fire Standards to Different Types of Land Uses

     1.     Zones affected by Fire Standards
            Fire standards are applicable in all rural zones, but different standards may apply
            in different types of zones.        The applicability of fire standards by zone is
            discussed in (A) above and noted in the fire safety standards checklist below,
            Sections 11.110 to 11.150. The checklist also highlights any specific differences
            in the applicability of the standard due to size of lot or specific zoning.

    2.      Uses affected by Fire Standards
            Some fire standards are applicable only to new dwellings while others are
            applicable to all kinds of structures and alterations to structures. The following
            table lists the fire safety standards applicable to different types of development.

Chapter 11-Applicability                                      T3.007-               p O cA         C vs)
                                                                                         Page 11-3

      Applicability of Fire Safety Standards to Different Types of Land Uses
                          Siting — (A) Avoid slopes > 40% & (B) Set back from top of
All New Dweilings and     slopes > 30%
Rural Commercial or       Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
Rural Industrial          to unmanaged   lands around structures
Buildings                 Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks, D. Screened Exterior Openings,
Conditional Use Permit,   (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
Subject to Standards,     Access — (A) Improved Surface & Minimum      Driveway widths,
Site Plan Review, and     (B) Turn Radius, Maximum Slopes, & Pull Outs, (C) Physical
Permitted Dwellings       Clearance & Fire Fuel Breaks on Driveways, (D) Turnarounds,
                          (E) Bridges & Culverts, (F) Gates, (G) Signs & (H) Roads to the
                          property
                          Structural Fire Protection Required
                          Siting — (A) Avoid slopes > 40% & (B) Set back from top of
Relocated Dwellings       slopes > 30%
(Replacement in a new     Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
location)                 to unmanaged lands around structures
                          Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities & (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (A) Improved Surface & Minimum Driveway widths,
                          (B) Turn Radius, Maximum Slopes, & Pull Outs, (C) Physical
                          Clearance & Fire Fuel Breaks on Driveways, (D) Turnarounds,
                          (E) Bridges & Culverts, (F) Gates & (G) Signs.
                          Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
Replacement Dwellings     to unmanaged lands around structures.
{In Kind — same size /    Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
same location)            Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (A) Improved Surface & Minimum Driveway widths,
                          (B) Turn Radius, Maximum Slopes, & Pull Outs, (C) Physical
                          Clearance & Fire Fuel Breaks on Driveways, (D) Turnarounds,
                          (E) Bridges & Culverts, (F) Gates & (G) Signs
                          Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break & (B) Minimum of 50 feet
Improved Expanded         to unmanaged lands around structures
Dwellings                 Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks, (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities& (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (C) Physical Clearance and Fire Fuel Breaks on
                          Driveways, (F) Gates& (G) Signs
                          Siting — (A) Avoid slopes > 40% & (B) Set back from top of
Accessory Buildings       slopes > 30%
                          Defensible Space — (A) Fire fuel break
                          Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
                          Clear Clean & Protected Decks (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
                          (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities & (G) Stand Pipe
                          Access — (C) Physical Clearance & Fire Fuel Breaks on
                          Driveways, (F) Gates & {G) Signs

                                              P007- 00ke
                                                                           Chapter 11-Applicibility

                                                                             i)
 Page 114

                              Construction Standards — (A) Roofing, (B) Spark Arresters, (C)
  Accessory or                Clear Clean & Protected Decks (D) Screened Exterior Openings,
|Agricultural Structures    | (E) Overhanging trees, (F) Underground Utilities, (G) Stand Pipe
                              Fire Mitigation Pian shall be submitted identifying all home sites,
 Land Divisions               building envelopes, and access as necessary to demonstrate
                              compliance with all applicable fire standards on proposed lots.

 Chapter 11-Applicability
                                                           $27007- 00860 (45)
                                                                                            Page 11-5

SECTION     11.030   {ntroduction

A. Cause of Wild Land and Fire Spread and Residential Starts

   4.   Radiated Heat — Fires are started by heat that radiates or spreads out from
        flames, (e.g., run your finger above a candle flame). Flames of every size radiate
        heat. Smaller ground level flames radiate less heat than larger flames generated
        by crown fires. The larger the flames near a structure the greater the chance of
        the structure being ignited by radiant heat. Radiant heat is also hotter above the
        flames than it is beside the flame so where a structure is located on a slope can
        also affect the risk of a structure igniting from radiated heat from a wild fire.

   2.   Convection or Direct Contact with Flames — Fires are also ignited by direct
        contact between the structure and the flame. When flammable material (wood
        piles, shrubbery, dead leaves, or grass) accumulates under eaves or decks or
        near the house, the structure is exposed to a much greater risk of ignition as the
        flammable fuel will feed the flames right at the structure.

                                                  (3007-005                   lie               luction
Page 11-6

    3.      Firebrands or Contact with Flying Embers — Fires can start from burning embers
            carried aloft from as far away as a mile or more. Fire brands are most dangerous
            when they:
            a. Land on flammable roofs or decks,
            b. Settle or are sucked into openings in eaves, soffits, roof vents, under decking,
                or in crawl spaces through foundation vents, or
            c.    Fall on and ignite nearby vegetation or flammable materials, especially if
                  stored or accumulated under eaves, decks, or other structural extensions that
                  can trap the heat generated by the burning of flammable materials.

                                                                   Fitz Deans

B. What’s Necessary to Defend Against Wild Land Fire?
    1.      Access to structures and property.
    2.      Room to maneuver around structures.
    3.      Elimination    and   containment       of fire fuels    to     limit    ignition   risks   around     the
            structure.
    4.      Use    of fire resistant   materials     to decrease         ignition    risks at the dwelling          or
            structure.
    5.      On-site water supplies to help extinguish              a small fire before          it requires     a full
            response or becomes a wild land fire start.

C. Fire Safety Standards
    Sections 11.110 to 11.150 of this chapter state the Fire Safety Standards on one
    page. The zones in which the safety standards apply, the benefits of compliance
    with safety standards, and the necessary actions if an applicable standard can not
    be met are stated on the facing pages. Sections 11.210 to 11.240 describe the
    review and self certification process and necessary steps to permitting a modification
    of fire safety standards.

Chapter 11-Introduction                                                    PB 0            7 — y M4) ke         Lo wS)
                  Page 11-7

.   /3001-bOkL   fo
Page 11-8

SECTION        11.110         Siting Standards - Locating Structures for Good Defensibility

Chapter 11-Siting Standards                             P3009-         b O x       LY“ sv)
                                                                                                       Page 11-9

A.   If Yes Then                                        A.    If No Then

e    Extensive and costly grading and ground            A modification of fire safety standards must be
     disturbance will be avoided                        requested.
«    Emergency     responders   will have   room   to
     access and maneuver around ail sides of            The     fire mitigation    plan   submitted   with   the
     the structure.                                     request      for   modification       must    propose
e    Structure will avoid exposure to the hottest       mitigation measures such as:
     side of fast moving flames climbing the
     slope                                              e     Structural fire proofing (thermal windows,
e    Structure will avoid potential of trapping               smaller windows, fire retardant building
     heat rising off of flames on the slope                   materials on all sides).
     below.                                             «     National    Fire     Protection  Association
                                                              (NFPA)     Sprinkler     system   if  access
                                                              standards cannot be met.
                                                        e     Expanded fire fuel breaks.
                                                        e     Additional irrigation. on all sides of the
                                                              home and an on site water supply capable
                                                              of   running   the    irrigation system for
                                                              extended periods.
                                                        e     Evacuation plan.

                                                        /30077-               Co
Page 11-10

                                                                                ny

                                    No structures or other extensions closer than 30 feet from top of slope
                                                Stone or Concrete patio rather than above ground decking
                                                                                           Enclosed soffits
-OR-

                              Fire resistant or non combustible exterior materials (siding, decking, roofing}
                                                Large timber or metal supports for decks or other extensions
                                                                          Decking area screened or enclosed
                                                                                             Enclosed soffits

Chapter 11-Siting Standards
                                                     Vy, 0 O7~             £00 -,            (a Zo )
                                                                                                              Page 11-11

    B(1).     If Yes Then                                              B(1).   If No Then

e       Emergency       responders   will have        room    to       Refer to B(2) below.
        access and maneuver around all sides of
        the building.
e       Building will avoid exposure to the hottest
        side    of fast moving   flames      climbing        the
        slope.
e       Building will avoid   trapping      heat rising off
        flames below.

B(2) - If Yes Then                                                  B(2) - If No Then

e       Emergency       responders    can     still   access       A modification of fire safety standards must be
        and     maneuver    around   all    sides      of    the   requested.
        building.
¢       Building will be closer to the hottest side of             The fire mitigation plan submitted         with the
        fast moving flames climbing the slope but                  request    for  modification must           propose
        additional fire proofing of the building will              mitigation measures such as:
        help mitigate risks of ignition.
e       Flattening the design of the fagade on the                 «       Eliminate decks and eaves.
        down hill side of the building will help avoid             e       Structural fire proofing (thermal windows,
       potential of trapping heat rising off of                            smaller windows, fire retardant building
       flames on the slope below allowing the                              materials on all sides).
       building to be constructed nearer the top of                e       NFPA      Sprinkler     system _— if access
       slope.                                                             standards cannot be met.
                                                                   e«     Expanded fire fuel breaks.
                                                                   e      Additional irrigation on all sides of the
                                                                          home and an on site water supply capable
                                                                          of running    the    irrigation system for
                                                                          extended periods.
                                                                   e      Evacuation plan.

                                                                                              lyn             Standards
                                                                         L
                                                            p23 00 I-VOS
  Page 11-12

  SECTION        11.120    Defensible Space — Clearing and Maintaininga Fire Fuel Break

  -DEFENSIBLE SPACE

  Fire Fuel Break Includes: Irrigated fire resistant domestic plantings, low volume stow burning plantings,
  and trees encouraged to provide shade and ground cooling. Trees should be grouped. Groups of trees
  shail be spaced to avoid creation of a continuous tree canopy. Trees shall be kept in healthy fire resistant
  condition. Trees shall be limbed up to create a vacant area between ground fuels and canopy fuels.
  Under story vegetation shall be minimized and ground cover shall be kept trimmed low to the ground.

                                                                                     er Er,
                                                                              Cues     OF TREE S
                                                                              Linger UP No LAVPER

  Fire Fuel Break Area Plan View                                 Fire Fuel Break Area Sample lilustration

  MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR FIRE FUEL BREAK AREA:
     Ground cover maximum 4inches tall;
eveee

        Trees limbed up approximately 8 feet from the ground,
        Trees kept free from dead, dry, or flammable material;
        Ladder fuels must be removed;
        No shrubs or tall plants under trees;
evr

        Shrubs only in isolated groupings that maximize edges of ornamental beds to avoid continuous
        blocks of ground fuel;
  e     Keep shrubs and ornamental beds 15 feet away from edge of buildings and drip line of tree canopy;
        and
  e     Use well irrigated or flame resistant vegetation (See OSU      Extension Service publication called “Fire
        Resistant Plants for Oregon Home Landscapes’)

  Chapter 11-Defensible Space Standards

                                                         — Spoe7- 008 lw
                                                                                                         Page 11-13

A.   If Yes Then                                   A.       If No Then

e    Eliminating ladder fuels and limbing trees    A modification of fire safety standards must be
     up helps keep fire on the ground.             requested.
e    Including trees in the fire fuel break can
     catch and deflect flying embers before        The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
     they land on the structure.                   request for modification must document that
e    Spacing between bedding plants or shrub       the fire fuel break cannot be met:
     groupings allows ornamental plantings that
     do not create a fuel bed.                     e        Demonstration why an alternate site on the
e    Irrigation provides moisture during the dry            property cannot be used to allow for the full
     months   and shading from healthy limbed               fire fuel break:
     trees retains moisture longer. Moisture is    e       Demonstration that an easement allowing
     key to helping dissipate fire energy.                 for the full fire fuel break cannot be
e    Fire resistant vegetation also helps slow             provided for by easement on adjoining land
     spread of fire toward the structure.          e       The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
                                                           request for modification must also propose
                                                           mitigation measures such as:
                                                        e     Eliminate decks and eaves.
                                                        e¢    Structural    fire    proofing    (thermal
                                                              windows, smaller windows, fire retardant
                                                              building materials on all sides).
                                                        «     Additional irrigation on the side of the
                                                               home      where    fire   fuel    break      width
                                                               requirements cannot be met and an on
                                                               site water supply capable of running the
                                                               irrigation system for exterided periods.
                                                        e      Evacuation plan.

                                             f007-                        Chapter 11-Defensibile Space Standards

                                                                       LCOSELME
Page 11-14

e   Those developing steeper properties are advised to provide breaks     in the tree canopy across   the
    slope at the outer edges and extending beyond the fire fuel breaks.
    Land beyond the fire fuel break can always be managed for additional safety.
    This is the place for tight trees, dense under-story vegetation, tall waving grass, and unmanaged or
    less managed lands.
e   The outer edge of the fuel break zone can be feathered back into the unmanaged area to provide for
    a more natural appearing edge condition.

Chapter 11-Defensble Space Standards                          fe 00°) (00 Ke Cys)
                                                                                                        Page 11-15

B. If Yes Then                                             B. If No Then

e   If slopes cannot be avoided, providing for             This standard is advisory.       No request         for
    broad breaks in the canopy across the                  modification     of fire  safety   standards          is
    slope 20-30 feet and more can help limit               required if it cannot be met.
    the spread of a canopy fire up slope.
e   Keeping some wild unmanaged areas is
    OK if they are far enough from the structure
    that a wild fire’s progress will be slowed by
    the   decrease    in   fire   fuels    as_      fire
    approaches developed areas.
«   NOTE:     Slope hazards increase the threat
    of structural fire ignition by increasing the
    chance of a wild land fire getting into and
    traveling through the tree canopy.           If you
    are developing in a wooded area with steep
    slopes, every attempt should be made to
    locate away from the steeper ground. (see
    11.110(A) and (B) above)

                                          42007- OO3C Cys)                 Chapter 11-Defensibile Space Standards
Page 11-16

                                           Standards     for Dwellings      and   Structures     _—
SECTION         14.130      Construction
                                         the ignition risks by  planning    for a more fire-sa fe
                            Decreasing
                            structure.

                     CHIMNEY
                     CLEA RAN CE.
                     10!  ea   Bis)
                                                                   FIRE    RESASANT
                                                                    ROoFIng           ,

                   haiti                    om                       [ee
                                                                      CLEAR
                                                                      CLEAN
                                                                      es

                                                                      ay                   bee
                                                                      vec

                                                                                              B(5)
                                                               FouNArioN
                                                               VENTS/      2)
                                      waa            ma     |>              Ba                ai

                                                     Zz 907-00              Le    C “Sy
  Chapter 11-Gonstruction Standards
                                                                                                          Page 11-17

A(1).   If Yes Then                                        A(1).   If No Then

Your    roof      will   resist   ignition   from   fire   Fire resistant roofing   is required.    There    is no
brands. Fire resistant roofing is one of the               way to mitigate risks of a wild land fire ignition
most important standards of defensibility.                 related to use of more flammable roofing. Fire
                                                           brands can be carried over a quarter mile to
                                                           land on a roof.

A(2). If Yes Then                                          A(2).   If No Then

Sparks and embers in the fire box of a                     There is no alternative to the requirement that
fireplace or stove will not be allowed to                  spark arrestors be installed and maintained.
escape through the chimney and start a                     They are common and widely available.
wild land fire.

                                                    L3007- 00SEC us                  apter 11-Construction Standards
 Page 11-18

                                    £9007—-00 eo CHE)
Chapter 11-Construction Standards
                                                                                                                Page 11-19

B(1). If Yes Then                                                 B(1). If No Then
Horizontal extensions, like decks, will be                        There is no alternative to the screening and
protected from the accumulation of fire fuel.                     maintenance required under and around the
Horizonta! extensions create a heat trap for                      exterior of a structure, its decks, and other
heat if flames are generated beneath them.                        horizontal extensions.
Limiting         fire       fuels     under         horizontal
extensions and screening to keep embers
or fire bombs from getting in under lower
decks will help eliminate the risk of heat
being trapped under a deck or porch and
igniting a structure.
B(2). lf Yes Then                                                 B(2). If No Then
Vents      are      built     to    funnel    air     through     There is no alternative to the screening of exterior
enclosed areas of a structure.     Screening                      vents and openings.
on the vents or behind vent louvers ensures
that embers are not sucked into the hard-
to-reach recesses behind the vents.
B(3). If Yes Then                                                 B(3). If No Then
Healthy green trees around the house can                          If maintenance of trees near or overhanging the
be retained and may actually help shelter                         house is too onerous the trees can be removed.
the dwelling from fire brands.                                    NOTE: The presence of trees has been shown to
                                                                  have the benefits discussed in 11.120({A), above,
Trees and their debris must be maintained                         if properly maintained.
in a clean healthy condition.
B(4). If Yes Then                                                 B(4). If No Then
»   Threat        of a fire start due          to downed          The fire mitigation plan submitted with the request
    service lines will be minimized.                              for modification must document that it is not
e   Access to and around the structure will                       practical to underground utilities and propose
    be simplified by limiting aerial access to                    measures such as
    the structure to a single location.
e   Responders will be able to shut down                          ¢   Keeping the utility service routes clear to
    main power so they can respond safely                             simplify access around the structure.
    to the structure at the main service                          e   Providing a single point of access to the
    switch.                                                           structure.

                                                                  There is no alternative to the requirement that
                                                                  private utility services have a clearly marked
                                                                  power disconnect switch at the pole or off grid
                                                                  power source.
B(5). lf Yes Then                                                 B(5). If No Then
This stand pipe will be available to the                          There is no alternative allowed to the provision of
homeowner for use to help contain smaller                         a standpipe     50   feet  from   all combustible
fires prior to emergency responders getting                       structures served by a plumbed water system.
to the site.                                                      Rural response times are always longer than in
                                                                  town.    Land owners must do what they can to
                                                                  provide immediate response to small fire starts.

                                                                 / 3007-0056                        CS)
                                                                                         Chapter 14-Construction Standards
Page 11-20

SECTION        11.140     Access Standards - Providing safe access to and escape from
                          your home.

IMPROVED SURFACE REQUIREMENTS

         2-3" Bg        onus
         LEVELIKGm       >   : 7
         “ounce

    o-B"            BF:           -
    Iv   Run    ©4462     Kock,

                                                                                        90-95% Compaction

Driveway surface standards shall meet the specifications above or meet an alternate design standard
established by a licensed engineer who will certify that the alternate design standard is capable of
supporting 75,000 pound gross vehicle weight year round, wet or dry. Compliance shall be demonstrated
prior to inspection by the County Road Department to confirm compliance with road approach permit.

MINIMUM DRIVEWAY WIDTHS

               12    |

Minimum improved width                 Minimum improved width                 Minimum improved width
is 12 feet on straight sections         is 14 feet on single curves           is 16 feet when curves are
and through gentle curves.              with less than 150-foot radius.       linked or located on a slope
                                                                              in excess of 10%.

                                                          f37007- 00a                                        (48)
Chapter 11-Access Standards
                                                                                                   Page 11-21

A. If Yes Then                                   A.   If No Then

Emergency responders will be able to bring ail   A modification of fire safety standards must be
vehicles onto your property and to your          requested.
building site.                                   The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
                                                 fequest      for      modification     must       propose
                                                 mitigation measures such as:
                                                 e    A demonstration why standards cannot be
                                                      met and that an alternate site will not allow
                                                      standards to be met.
                                                 «    Proposed alternate road lay out that can
                                                      allow   the      best   access    possible     to   the
                                                      building site.
                                                 e    NFPA Sprinkler system if alternate access
                                                      standards   cannot   provide   for  timely
                                                      response.
                                                 e    Expanded fire fuel breaks.
                                                 «    Additional irrigation on all sides of the
                                                      home and an on-site water supply capable
                                                      of   running   the   irrigation system for
                                                      extended periods.
                                                 e    Structural fire proofing (thermal windows,
                                                      smaller windows, fire retardant building
                                                      materials on all sides).
                                                 e    Evacuation plan and acknowledgment that
                                                      some or all fire equipment may not have
                                                      sufficient access   to your  property to
                                                      respond.

                                           4300 9— 0080                         Chapter 11-Access Standards

                                                                                       CD)
Page 11-22

                                7
                                + 20°

Minimum 20 foot turn radius onto driveway                   Minimum 48 foot turn radius for curves or
from road.                                                  switchbacks in the driveway. Larger radius,
                                                            more gentle turns are desirable where possible.

IS THE SLOPE OF YOUR DRIVEWAY GENTLE ENOUGH                        FOR EQUIPMENT TO GET UP AND DOWN
SAFELY?

Maximum steady grade of 10% or                             Maximum steady grade of 10% may be exceeded
40 feet of elevation gain over 100 feet of distance.        for short pitches. Short (up to 100-foat lengths)
                                                           intermittent sections may be up to 12%.
                                                           No more than three 100-foot lengths in 1,000
                                                           feet.

IF YOUR DRIVEWAY IS LONGER THAN 200 FEET, ARE TURNOUTS                         PROVIDED ALONG ITS
LENGTH?

                                                       +
               ayale

                                                       7                   :
                                                 e   0’?

Turnouts need to be provided at least every 400 feet. Turn outs are intended to allow vehicles to pass
safely, especially during an emergency. This should be kept in mind when siting the turnouts. Steeper
slopes or tighter corners may require turnouts to be located closer than every 400 feet.

Chapter 11-Access Standards
                                                             f3007- 0080 Cus)
                                                                               Page 11-23

B.   If Yes Then                                        B. If No Then

e    Emergency responders will be able to bring all | See (A) above
     vehicles onto your property and to your building |
     site.

e    You will be able to get off your property as the
     fire equipment accesses the site.

                                         ~2      (007-      LOS         (us)   Standards
Page 11-24

   |IA ence clear Ae

                                                                                     v
                           S eee

                                                 IZ—We' suRrACE                      |
                                   (4-(b"    HORIZONTAL CLEARANCE

 Responding vehicles need over 13 verti cal feet
                                                 and a minimum of 14 horizontal feet of clearance to pass
 through vegetation along a driveway.

                          pice Purl BREAK
                       PLL            / ff    LL    LE6     LR?

                                                         center line of the driveway is required.
  A fire fuel break extending 10 feet either side of the

                                                              fs D 07~              O 0) 5 C        Ly“)
   Chapter 11-Access Standards
                                                                                                 Page 11-25

C. If Yes Then                                                C.   If No Then

   Emergency responders will be able to access                See (A) above
   your    property   with   out    damaging     your
   landscaping, native trees, or their vehicles.

   If there is a need to respond from the driveway,
   there   will   be   room   to   maneuver   more   safely
   around the emergency vehicles.

   If there is a major wild land fire, the fire fuel
   break along the drive will help ensure that the
   driveway     remains    passable    during    the
   response.

                                                                                Chapter 11-Access Standards
                                               £3007-                 Oke CYS)
Page 11-26

95-foot-diameter cul-de-sac                            120-foot hammerhead

Acceptable alternative to 120’ hammerhead     Acceptable alternative to 120-foot hammerhead

Chapter 11-Access Standards                 p~3 C07         OO &         Cys)
                                                                                            Page 11-27

D. If Yes Then                                                D. If No Then

Responders       accessing    your   property      in    an   See (A) above
emergency    will be able    to get turned      around   to
leave the property, make room for additional
responders, or to refill tenders and return.

                                         Ly        007-         $O&L          (a>   11-Access Standards
Page 11-28

Culverts larger than a 6-foot diameter and all bridges that are relied on to access development must be
engineered constructed and maintained to support 75,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.                Culverts less
than a 6-foot diameter  must    be  installed to manufacturer  specifications,  including  requirements   that the
culvert be embedded    sufficiently  to  maximize  water  flow and  minimize   risk of  scouring or  undercutting
below the pipe.

                                                        eik
                                                       ie
                                    ac     TT    TTT        ~~ 77       7>>
               Recmrieibep          “iEpA                    ‘                 MATCH      Rte. eth

Bridges should match the finished width of the road or driveway. A minimum bridge width of 14 feet is
required: and may be built if 7-foot-wide and 50-feet-long pullouts are provided on either side of the
bridge.

      Gates need to swing or glide.
      Gates need to be operable by a single person and maintained in operable condition.
      The horizontal clearance through a gate must be a minimum of 14 feet.
      Electric or locked gates must be operable or removable by emergency responders.

 Signs required to:
      e      Limit parking.
             Mark fire lanes.
             Direct responders to an on-site water source.
             Identify electrical service shut-off at the power pole or off grid power source.
             Post weight limits on existing bridges or culverts.

 Must be made and maintained so that:
      e      Lettering is light colored and reflective against a dark background — except that red and
             white 12 inch by 18 inch fire lane, no parking signs Per Figure D(103.6) of the 2004
             Oregon Fire Code.
      e      Letters are a minimum of 4 inches tall.
      e      Letters are a minimum of %-inch-wide-letter strokes.
 Signs are posted and kept clear of vegetation so they are fully visible.

Chapter 44-Access Standards

                                                       /3 007— LOG Cys)
                                                                                                             Page 11-29

E. If Yes Then                                                    E. IfNo Then

Emergency        responders   will   be   able   to get   to or   A   modification        of fire safety     standards
through   your     property without       risk of damage     to   must be requested.
equipment or roadway structures.                                  The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
                                                                  request for modification must propose
                                                                  mitigation measures including:
                                                                  e   Any culvert greater than a 6-foot
                                                                      diameter or bridge not capable of
                                                                      supporting   75,000    gross vehicle
                                                                      weight      shall      be   signed      at     both
                                                                      entrances.
                                                                  e   Other applicable mitigation measures
                                                                      listed in (A) above.

F. if Yes Then                                                    F. If No Then

Emergency    responders will be able to access your               No alternatives exist for the requirement
property.                                                         for a passable gate.

G.   If Yes Then                                                  G. If No Then

Emergency    responders will be able to access and                No alternatives exist for the requirement
navigate your property and the development site.                  for that clear and legible               signage     be
                                                                  installed and maintained.

                                                                                          Chapter 11-Access Standards
                                                      /3007- 00 & CYS)
Page 11-30

DEFINITIONS — WHO IMPROVES AND MAINTAINS WHICH EXISTING ROADS?

County Roads are:
    e  Fully dedicated public roads over which the County has full jurisdiction.
    e  The County is responsible for improvements and maintenance of county roads inciuding
       bridges, culverts, ditches, etc..
    e  Most, if not all, public roads in the county meet the minimum access requirements for
       emergency vehicles.

Local Access Roads are:
    e    Public roads over which the County has limited jurisdiction.
    e    The County is not liable for failure to improve the local access road or keep it in repair.
    e    The County has limited ability to spend money on local access roads and expenditure on
         local access roads is made only in emergencies and is subject to special review process
         prior to the expenditure.
    e    Landowners served by the road must improve or maintain the road if it is to stay in good
         repair.
         Some local access roads have organized maintenance organizations but most do not.
    e    Many local access roads meet minimum access requirements but some will require
         improvements in order to be accessible to emergency responders and all will require
         maintenance.

Private Roads are:
    e    Neither public roads nor county roads.
    *®   The County cannot improve or maintain private roads.
    e    Private roads serve more than one dwelling but are not required to be open to the public.
    e    The land owners served by the private road are solely responsible for its improvement
         and maintenance.
    e    Many private roads will require improvements in order to be accessible to emergency
         responders and all will require maintenance.

Driveways are:
    e  Private access roads serving no more than two dwellings.
    e  The home owner bears sole responsibility for driveway improvement and maintenance.

Per ORS 368.001-368.031

ACCESS ROAD STANDARDS ~ WHAT MAY HAVE TO BE DONE TO ROADS LEADING TO
BUT NOT PART OF YOUR PROPERTY?
If a legally created parcel is accessed by a County or State improved and maintained road, the
applicant must demonstrate that driveway standards are met on the property and is responsible
for continued maintenance of the driveway in accordance with standards.

Chapter 11-Access Standards

                                                    /2007- 00 Se Cus)
                                                                                                             Page 11-31

If a legally created parcel is accessed by a local access or private road the road way will need
to be determined    to meet   county road   standards    or minimum           standards for a fire apparatus
access road (defined in Chapter 5 of the 2004 Oregon Fire Code) prior to new construction.                              A
fire apparatus access   road needs to have an improved all-weather surface of 20-feet wide or
sections of the road with a finished road surface width of 20 feet for a length of 40 feet at no
greater than 400-foot intervals. All access standards, other than width, tum radius, and slope or
grade that are applicable to driveways, (A) - (H), are also applicable to local access and private
roads. Improvements made within a local access road will require a permit to do work in a public
right of way.
Land divisions creating new parcels need to improve roads up to the point of access to the
proposed land division to meet public road standards prior to final land division approval.

H.   If Yes Then                                           H.   If No Then

Emergency     responders will be able to get to your | A        modification           of fire safety       standards
property with any vehicle at a reasonable rate of | must be requested.
speed with little risk of damage to equipment or | The fire mitigation plan submitted with the
roads.                                              request for modification must:
                                                    *   Employ        applicable      mitigation
                                                        measures listed in (A) above. -AND-
                                                    e   Demonstrate that county road or fire
                                                        apparatus    access    road   standards
                                                        cannot feasibly be met.
                                                    «   Demonstrate       that    improvements
                                                                    achieve       basic      access         (driveway
                                                                    standard)     along sections           determined
                                                                    incapable       of  meeting             a_  higher
                                                                    standard.
                                                           e        If basic driveway standard is not met
                                                                    at any point, that section shall be
                                                                    clearly signed from both directions
                                                                    calling out the weight            limit, width of
                                                                    narrow      road    section,      or   grade      and
                                                                    length of steep road way.
                                                           «    Ability of responders to get to a site is
                                                                    limited by the ability of an applicant to
                                                                    make       and       maintain     off-site
                                                                    improvements.
                                                           e        The   land     owner     will    be    notified     of
                                                                    service      limitations        resulting       from
                                                                    substandard        access       and    required to
                                                                    document        acknowledgement        of
                                                                    limitations   to emergency      services
                                                                    prior to receiving a building permit.

                                                                       Q ”) Si L       Cus: vee                 Standards
                                              LA        006     _
 Page 11-32

 SECTION 11.150           Fire Protection or On-Site Water Required - Ensuring dwellings
                          have some fire protection available through manned or
                          unmanned       response.

DEFINITION - FIRE DISTRICT FOR PURPOSE OF APPLICATION OF FIRE STANDARDS.
An actively trained and reporting structural fire protection district having a boundary on file with
the State     Fire Marshal    and    recognized   as a qualified structural fire protection district by the
State Fire Marshal's Office.

  ON   SITE WATER         IS REQUIRED       IN BOTH     URBAN     AND   RURAL     ENVIRONMENTS        FOR
  FIRE SAFETY (Fire Flow Requirements).

  Dwellings less than or equal to 3,500 square feet can rely on emergency                   responders to
  meet the on site water requirements if they are inside a fire protection district.

 Dwellings in excess of 3,500 square feet require on-site water in excess of the amount of
 water that could reasonably be delivered to the site by emergency responders. Dwellings in
 excess of 3,500 square feet need to provide an NFPA sprinkler system to meet on site water
 requirements. Provision of an NFPA sprinkler system meets fire code fire flow requirements.

 Structures must be located inside a structural fire protection district if possible. It is not
 possible to be in a fire protection district when it is demonstrated that the dwelling cannot
 locate within, annex into a district, or contract with a structural fire protection district for service

 Agricultural structures and buildings and other accessory buildings in the Forest
 Zones, not otherwise provided with on site water for fire protection, must meet the minimum
 standards for on site water required by the Management Plan. A pond, stream, tank or sump
 with storage of not less than 1,000 gallons, or a well or water system capable of delivering 20
 gallons per minute shall be provided.

Chapter 11-On-Site Water Standards

                                                            Yn07- L086 Cus)
                                                                                          Page 11-33

A. If Yes Then                                               A. If No Then

e   A special taxing district exists and volunteer or        Refer to (B), Below
    professional fire fighters will respond to and
    defend a structure to the best of their ability.

«   Installation of an   NFPA-approved = sprinkler
    system meets the fire flow requirements for
    rural structures when a responders’ ability to
    bring water to the site cannot. (See other
    benefits   of   NFPA   sprinkler   systems   in   (B),
    below.)

                                                                             Cys)   Water Standards
                                            L000               COSL
Page 11-34

 ON-SITE WATER !S REQUIRED                      IN BOTH URBAN            AND RURAL ENVIRONMENTS                 FOR
 FIRE SAFETY EVEN OUTSIDE                       A STRUCTURAL             FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT               (Fire
 Flow Requirements).

 Dwellings can be located outside a structural fire protection district upon demonstration
 that the parcel or home site cannot locate within, annex into, or contract with a structural fire
 protection district for service. If a dwelling is proposed outside a structural fire protection
 district, you cannot rely on emergency responders to meet the fire code fire flow
 requirements. Providing an NFPA sprinkler system is required to meet fire flow requirements
 unless a request for modification of the fire safety standards has been requested and
 approved.

 Dwellings in the Forest Zones and outside a structural fire protection district must
 provide a year-round on-site 4,000 gallon water source, or access to a stream or spring
 having continuous year-round flow of at least 1 cubic foot per second.
     *  The applicant must provide a written statement from Oregon Water Resources
        Department verifying that permits or registrations required for any water diversion or
        storage have been obtained or are not required.
     e  Driveway access and a turnaround meeting the access standards in Section 11.140
             must be extended to within 10 feet of the water source.
      *      Permanent     signs   shall   be    posted     directing   emergency    vehicles    to approved    water
             sources.

 Agricultural       structures     and     buildings        and    other accessory      buildings    in the    Forest
 Zones       must   meet   the minimum          standards     for on site water     required    by the Management
 Plan. (see (A). above)

Chapter 11-On-Site Water Standards                                yyy, 00 7           O 0 So           C Ys)
                                                                                                         Page 11-35

B.   If Yes Then                                                 B.     If No Then

e    Provision of an NFPA sprinkler system does not              If a NFPA sprinkler system is required
     rely on a responder’s presence to function and              but cannot be provided, a modification of
     can often extinguish a small ignition before it             fire safety standards must be requested.
     grows to the point where a large-scale response             This is necessary because either no
     is necessary.                                               structural fire protection will be provided
e    Meeting    fire   flow   requirements      for    larger    by a recognized district or because the
     structures can require an on-site water source              dwelling exceeds the size determined to
     of 8,000 gallons or more (see alternatives to               be defensible by local responders.
     sprinkler system).                                          The fire mitigation plan submitted with
e    Installation of a sprinkler system in site-built            the request for modification must include
     homes, particularly larger homes, is often the              an on-site water source capable of
     most     affordable    way    to   meet fire flow           meeting fire code requirements for water
     requirements. Installation of an NFPA approved              supplies in rural settings. Requirements
     sprinkler system can save home owners a                     for rural water supplies to meet fire flow
     significant amount on their fire insurance rates            requirements are generalized here:
     and will pay for itself over time.                          e   Minimum on site water storage 2,000
                                                                     gallons
NOTE:          Manufactured      homes       and _    historic   e    1,500-3,500 square foot dwelling -
structures may substitute on site water provision for                4,000 gallons
inclusion of a residential sprinkler system when                 *   >3,500-5,000 square foot dwelling -
otherwise required.        The county recognizes the                 8,000 gallons
disproportionately high cost of installation of NFPA             e   >5,000 square foot dwelling - 13,000
sprinkler systems in this type of structure and the                  gallons
limited ability to alter the design of structures when
locating a historical structure or manufactured                  When on-site water is provided to meet
home. Applicants locating a manufactured home or                 fire flow requirements within a_ fire
historic structure on their property may elect to                protection district, the on-site source
install an on-site water source meeting the on-site              must be made accessible to responders.
water requirements listed in this subsection.        No
request for modification needs to be made for these              When      on-site water is provided to meet
structures.                                                      fire    flow   requirements   outside    a   fire
                                                                 protection district, then the fire mitigation
                                                                 plan shall include provisions by the
                                                                 home owner for applying the water to
                                                                 the structure in the event of a fire.

                                                P          O ) 7~        bot”            Cus)”           Standards
Page 11-36

Section 11.210         Fire Safety Standard Review Process

A. Compliance with applicable fire safety standards is required by the ordinance for
    new, replacement, and modified structures in all rural zones.

    4.   Fire standards shall be made a part of the conditions of approval when a
         conditional use permit, site plan or subject to standards review, partition,
         subdivision, or other land use action is required prior to construction.

    2. Structures or alterations to structures that are subject to ministerial review must
         also comply with all applicable fire standards prior to receiving zoning approval
         on a building permit application.

    3.   In all cases compliance with applicable fire standards shall be self certified prior
         to receiving zoning approval on a building permit.

B. Continued compliance with fire safety standards is required.

    1.   Compliance is the responsibility of the land owner.

    2. An illustrative checklist will be provided to land use permit applicants and building
         permit applicants that explains all necessary steps to comply with applicable fire
         safety standards.

    3.   Required compliance with fire safety standards shall be disclosed to future land
         owners prior to sale of any parcel.

         Where fire safety standards, or a modification of the standards pursuant to
         10.220 below, are applied through a land use review as conditions of approval,
         the conditions of approval shall be recorded along with the notice of decision.

Section 11.220         Modification of Fire Safety Standards
If one       or more   fire safety standard   cannot   be met,   the applicant   must   request   a
modification to fire safety standards. The request for modification shall include a site
specific fire safety mitigation plan. The modification of standards review shall be
processed in accordance with the procedures in LUDO Section 2.050(A)(3).              Notice
prior to the decision shall be provided to fire responders with jurisdiction by the Planning
Director. The decision to approve or deny the request for modification shall meet all
public notice requirements.

Ghapler 11-Review
            & Modification Process                      Y2n0 4 00Ke a P >
                                                                                                Page 11-37

Section 11.230 Fire Safety Mitigation Pian
A fire safety mitigation plan is required when an applicant needs to request a
modification to one or more fire safety standards listed on the self-certification check list.
A fire safety mitigation plan is also required for any land division creating lots that can
accommodate dwellings. A fire mitigation plan shall include the following:

A. One or more maps and accompanying narrative statement addressing the following:
   1. Site description.
   2.   Documentation     of   fire   protection   service   or   proposed   plan    for   on-site    fire
        protection.
   3.   Documentation of on-site water supply where required.
   4.   Driveway construction plan including gate features, size and locations of bridges
        or culverts and proposed signage.
   5.   Documentation of fuel break areas if land on adjoining properties is relied on to
        meet fuel break requirements.
   6.   Public or private road        plans for new    roads to serve    proposed      land divisions
        (including location, size, and type of bridges and culverts).
 _ 7.   Other information deemed necessary to allow adequate review of the request for
        modification.

B. Statement of need
   A clear statement of why the fire safety standards cannot feasibly be met.

C. Risk Assessment
   An assessment of increased risk of wildfire damage if standard is modified. Risk
   assessments shall consider the purpose of the standard that cannot be met, the
   specific proposal, and site conditions to determine what, if any, additional exposure
   to wild land fire risks could be created by approval of the modification to fire safety
   standards. The consideration shall include increased risk of the proposed structure
   becoming    a source of ignition and risks to the proposed           structure from a wild land
   fire ignited elsewhere and traveling through the site.

D. Statement of Additional Action Proposed to Eliminate or Minimize Increased Risks
   A clear list of additional measures proposed by the applicant to address any
   increased risks identified in the risk assessment.

                                             £3007- OOK            Chapter 1 CG

                                                                                  (US)
                                                                                    & Modification Process
    Page 11-38

|   Section 11.240        Review of Requested                Modification(s)

    A.   Planning Director Shall Seek Review

         1.   The    Planning   Director shall request and      consider the comments        and
              recommendations of local   emergency   responders,   including ODF  and  the State
              Fire Marshal's Office when making the final decision on a request for modification
              of fire safety          standards.    The      complete     fire safety     mitigation   plan     shail   be
              forwarded to all commenting responders including the Deputy State Fire Marshal.

         2.   Comments and recommendations                        by local responders      shall be provided to the
              Planning Director within 15 days.

    B.   Responses to the Director's Request for Review

         1.   Responders’ comments and recommendations shall do one of the following:

              a. Support the modification with mitigation measures proposed by the applicant.

              b. Support        the     modification      with     a recommendation        for alternate      mitigation
                 measures detailed by the responders.

              c. Accept the request for modification conditionally though minimum standards
                 cannot be met. This will be done only when the responder commenting on the
                 request cannot recommend feasible means to mitigate risks resulting from
                 approval of the modification. Acceptance of a modification that cannot be
                 fully mitigated or meet minimal standards will also include an assessment of
                 any limitations of service that may accompany approval of the modification.

                 E.g., an existing off-site bridge is located along a private road accessing the
                 applicant’s dwelling and many existing dwellings. The bridge is weight limited
                 but cannot be feasibly upgraded for the one new home.             One or more
                 responders may require that the weight limit of the existing bridge be
                 determined and clearly posted and they may also elect to notify the current
                 land owner and all other residents that larger responding vehicles will not
                 respond to calls accessed by that bridge.

              d. Recommend denial of the requested modification(s) on the grounds that:

                 (1) The proposed modification is not necessary because standards can and
                      should      be     met,    including       consideration   and    selection   of an     alternative
                      location for the development.

                 (2) Approval of the proposed modification will result in undue risk to life and
                      safety.

    Chapter 11-Review & Modification Proc
                                           ess                             2      O00 2-       DO Sle          Cys +)
                                                                                        Page 11-39

2.   Comments    and recommendations from emergency                 responders shall be
     supported by reasons sufficient to allow the Planning          Director to weigh the
     evidence and arguments prior to deciding to grant, conditionally grant, or deny a
     request for modification of fire safety standards.

3.   Approval or denial of a modification to standards is not subject to variance criteria
     in the LUDO.

4.   A modification of standards can be reviewed and decided in conjunction with
     another land use decision where other land use permits are required.

5.   Approval of a modification of standards is subject to administrative review, public
     notice, and the opportunity for further review on appeal under LUDO Section
     2.150.

6.   Certifications shall be verified within one year of approval and may be verified by
     staff site visits at any time

                                                          Chapter 11-Review & Modification Process

                                 L007              O00 &e             vs)