BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                              FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL
                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

Approval of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment from Agriculture/Forestry

                                                                                             ee
Large Holding to Public; a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm

                                                                                             ee
use to PWS, Public Works/Safety Zone, Taking an Exception to Goal 3,                              Ord. 833

                                                                                             ee
Tax Lots 4430-800 & 4431-100, Applicant McMinnville Water & Light

                                                                                             et
Commission, Repealing and Replacing Ordinance 830 to Correct Scriveners’

                                                                                             ee
Errors, Docket no. PAZ-04-08/P-06-08, and Declaring an Emergency

                                                                                             Ne
         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the
“Board”) sat for the transaction of county business on August 13, 2008, Commissioners Leslie
Lewis and Kathy George being present, and Commissioner Mary P. Stern being excused.

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD              that the McMinnville Water & Light Commission
requested approval of a     Comprehensive Plan amendment              from Agriculture/Forestry Large
Holding to Public; a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm use to PWS, Public Works/Safety
zone for two acres. An exception to Goal 3 is also required, and a partition of 2 acres of land
approved for the PWS zone; and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard at a duly noticed public
hearing before the Planning Commission June 5, 2008, which voted unanimously for approval,
and the matter was heard at a duly noticed public hearing July 16, 2008 before the Board, no
opponents appearing before the Board, and the Board voted unanimously for approval. NOW,
THEREFORE,

         IT IS HEREBY       ORDAINED      BY THE BOARD,            that an exception to Goal Three is
approved, and the application is approved based upon and as detailed in the Findings for
Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated herein. This ordinance,
being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an
emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage. This ordinance repeals and
replaces Ordinance 830 to correct scriveners’ errors.    A map is appended as Exhibit “B”.

        IT IS HEREBY FURTHER ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, the approved partition of
land as detailed in the Findings for Approval attached as Exhibit A, shall be subject to the
following four conditions of approval, to-wit:

         1)      A final partition plat pursuant to the requirements of the Yamhill County Land
Division Ordinance shall be prepared and submitted to the Planning Director. The final partition
plat shall substantially conform to the preliminary map. The Yamhill County Planning Docket
Number "P-05-08" shall appear on the face of the plat.

        2)      Prior to final partition approval, a survey of the 2-acre parcel shall be completed
by a registered land surveyor pursuant to Section 6.120 of the Yamhill County Land Division
Ordinance.

                                                        Ord. 833 - Mac Water & Light substation

                                                                                         B.0.08-S46
        3)     A 30-foot wide (minimum) nonexclusive easement for ingress and egress shall be
assigned to provide access to all parcels, surveyed, and shown on the face of the final plat. This
easement shall be granted at the time of conveyance of either of the lots.

        4)      The road providing access to all parcels shall be constructed to county
specifications and inspected by the Yamhill County Public Works Department or a private
engineer, or a road construction agreement shall be completed and recorded, prior to final plat
approval.

            DONE this 13" day of August, 2008, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN                                    Unavailable for sigt         e
County Clerk         3 é ff ;                                  MARY         P. STERN

By: at rms UDA           eR              “Wed.           MX [Vos
Deputy Anne Britt,              .      mMissioner        U"    LESLIE LEWIS

APPROVED AS TOFORMwee™ = Xaah (Hien
                       Commissione} KATHY GEORGE
     a GC
Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                   by Yamhill County
                                                                                    ommissioners on
                                                                        8/13         fox by Board Order
                                                                        4         08-S4b
                                                      Ord. 833 - Mac Water & Light substation
                                   EXHIBIT A

                     FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
                           (PAZ-04-08/P-06-08)
GENERAL FACTUAL FINDINGS

1.     Current Property size: Approximately 37.5 acres consisting of the Wolf
parcel of 14 acres and the Oldham parcel of 23.5 acres.

2.    Access: The property is located between Highway 18 and Old Sheridan
Road at the junction with Peavine Road.

3.      On-site Land Use: The property contains two permanent and one
temporary residences. Most of the Oldham property is an open field with grass
seed crops similar to that found in the surrounding area. The Wolf parcel is
forested.

4.      Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: The property to the north is zoned
by the city of McMinnville for multiple family use and contains apartments, The
property to the west is zoned EF-80 and contains farm land, pasture and a
residence, The area to the east is zoned for Light industrial and Heavy Industrial
use. Property to the south is zoned EF-80 and AF-10 and contains farm jand and
rural residential development.

5.     Water: Water will be provided from existing McMinnville Water and Light
department transmission lines in the adjacent right of way.

8.        Sewage Disposal: It is not anticipated that there will be any bathroom
facilities, but if required, the need would to be served by an on-site septic system.

7.     Fire Protection: McMinnville Rural Fire District.

8.      Soils; The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the property and the
proposed two acre parcel are composed of Woodburn soils (Types WuB and
Wub), with an agricultural capability of Classes 2 and 3. Class 2 and 3 soils are
classified as high-value farmland.

9.      Taxes: The parcel    is currently taxable   but is subject   to special   farm
deferral classification.

10.    Previous Actions: Tax Lot 4431-100 has no prior record of land use
approvals.   Tax Lot 4430-800 was approved for a temporary hardship dwelling
during 2007.

11.     The present farming uses would continue until displaced by the proposed
electrical substation(s). The construction of the substation on the newly created

                                                                  B.0- 08: S46
two-acre parcel would be linked to the increasing population and demographic
frends.

12.     In 1974, the City of McMinnville was a community of approximately 7,000
persons al the center of a mid-county population of approximately 20,000.
Today, McMinnville has grown to 31,685 (7/01/2007) and the county population
is 93,085 (7/01/2007). The impact of population growth on demand for electrical
service is continuing.

13.     MW2&L’s existing substation sites has been a good neighbors since 1906,
and have little or no impact on surrounding agricultural, resource, residential and
horticultural uses in the vicinity. Off site supervision is maintained on a twenty-
four hour basis.

414.     No additional or different impacts from those already existing substation
sites are anticipated. The two-acre parcel proposed for purchase by MW&L and
for PWS status would be developed for electrical distribution purposes as
needed, The existing farm uses will continue until the substation is constructed.
Surrounding properties should not experience increased noise, and access
would be through the existing 25’ wide easement or from Highway 18, for an
existing 115 KV power line now connecting Old Sheridan Road to Highway 18.
Existing uses by surrounding neighbors, which vary from Industrial to Resource
to Residential, and Farming to Horticulture are all compatible with the low impact
character of the electrical substation activities.

15.   Existing public services are available to the site and are adequate.

16.    One purpose of the PWS zone is to provide for the legitimate demand and
public need for electrical distribution facilities. The PWS zone exists partially to
meet the needs of areas encompassing both cities and rural residential
populations. The PWS zone thus serves a shared inter-Urban and Rural need for
public utility facilities.

17.     Due to the nature of growth trends of the City of McMinnville, westerly
portions of the City of McMinnville which have been approved for current and
future development cannot be adequately served by the existing Booth Bend
Substation. In order to maximize the safety and reliability of the City’s electrical
system, the McMinnville Water and Light Commission, based upon the
recommendations of staff and consultants (Electrical System Planning Study~
June 2005), has decided to acquire and develop additional substation facilities
to serve increased electrical demand. Planning staff indicates that no other
suitable PWS zoned county land is available in proximity to the existing proposed
substation site.

ZONING ORDINANCE CRITERIA

B.    Zone Change, Exception and Plan Amendment Findings
The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards                   and
criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

(A)     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies,         and any other
        applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

(B)     There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
        requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
        economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
        the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
        uses allowed by the zone.

(C)    The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
       density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
       occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
       utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
        district.

(D)   — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
        unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
        other factors.

(E)    The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
       exceptions, if applicable.

Regarding criterion (A) above, an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 is
needed so Comprehensive Plan goals and policies related to agricultural lands
are applicable. The application addresses most Plan goals and policies related to
Public Land, Facilities and Services. Those findings are incorporated here by
reference. Other Plan goals and policies, which applicant feels may be pertinent
are:

        Oregon Statewide Planning Goals and Guideline - Goal 9 - Economics,
        which states ''To provide adequate opportunities throughout the State for a
        variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and prosperity of
        Oregon's citizens ... Comprehensive plans and policies will contribute to a
        stable and healthy economy in all regions of the State."

This application promotes additional economic activity associated with the
expansion of needed housing and commercial development located within the
City of McMinnville and surrounding areas served by MW&L.

The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section Il, Goal 2, Policy a. states:

       Yamhill County will continue to preserve those areas for farm use which
       exhibit Class 1 through IV soils as identified in the Capability Classification
       System of the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
          In the Soil Survey of Yamhill Area, Oregon, the map shows that the soils present
          on the tract are agricultural Class 2 and 3 farmland. The county decision-makers
          will need to determine whether it is more important to save this two acre property
          for farm use or allow it to be used to expand existing public electrical distribution
          facilities.

                    Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies, G.IV.A.1. To develop a timely,
                    orderly and efficient arrangement of public services and facilities to serve as
                    a framework for urban and rural development, including public lands and
                    buildings, parks and recreation areas and facilities, schools, police and fire
                    protection, domestic water supply, sanitary and storm sewerage and other
                    drainage facilities, and power, gas and telephone services. (166)

          The proposed plan and zone change will have no adverse effect upon public
          services as existing facilities are near the site and are adequate. If anything, the
          applicant is providing a crucial public service by providing a place for expansion
          of electrical distribution facilities to serve increased electrical occurring within the
          McMinnville Water and Light service area.

          Regarding criteria 1208.02 (B) and (D), County Planning staff conducted a
          survey of lots within a within a six mile radius, covering approximately thirty six
          sq. miles, from the subject property. The survey found eight existing “PWS”
          zoned properties within the surveyed area. The properties are listed below:

Tax Lot                             Owner                             Acreage

4513-01100                          MW<&L (Service Reservoir)         10.85 Acres

4319-2000                           PGE Substation                    2.29 Acres

4319-1602                           City of Lafayette Well Site       4 Acres

3533-1000                           Yamhill County Radio Tower | 1.0 Acres

5541-101,200                        Waste Management Landfill       | 246 Acres

5512-300                            Yamhill County Old Landfill     | 34.5 Acres

4424-900                            City of McMinnville Approach | 6.75 Acres
                                    Lights
                                                                      1.25 Acres
5402-1000                           Eola Village Water Ststem
The application involves 2 acres of land located at the south westerly margin of
the city. As noted above, there are no nearby properties zoned PWS anywhere
near that area.        Based   on this evidence,    there    are   no other   available   “PWS”
zoned properties that would be suitable for the proposed electrical distribution
facilities. Additionally, it should be considered that the intent of this application is
to expand future electrical facilities where needed to serve anticipated and
approved development. The impacts of the existing substations, although low,
are already known. Building another substation facility at this proposed location
will likely cause minimal impacts to existing uses.

Regarding criterion 1208.02(C), the proposed use will not adversely affect the
neighboring properties in the area. Existing city substations have co-existed
peacefully with similar neighboring uses for decades. The public services,
necessary for the proposed facilities are similar to those needed for the existing
use and are readily available. The proposed zone change should have no
adverse effect upon public services, but will ultimately enhance the electrical
distribution and increase the available electrical distribution capacities.

Limited Use Overlay Provisions

OAR 660-04-18(3)(a) states that when a reasons exception is taken, plan and
zone designations must limit uses to only those that are justified in the exception.
Section 904.03 of the YCZO contains provisions for limited use overlays.             It
states:

(a)       When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
          underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the
          ordinance adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.

(b)       The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require conditional use
          approval for uses normally permitted outright.

(c)       Reasonable      conditions   may   be    imposed     in the Limited     Use     Overlay
          District as are necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the
          Comprehensive Plan and this ordinance.

(2)       Until the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses
          in an LU district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting
          ordinance.

Since the PWS zone allows other uses which have not been evaluated to
determine whether they are appropriate to the area, it is appropriate to apply a
Limited Use Overlay to limit uses on the rezoned area to electrical distribution
and related facilities.
                 Oral testimony at the Planning Commission asserted that           a Goal
                 Exception to Goal 14 was required to approve the Partition request in the
                 PWS zone. The Board finds that that Goal 14 exceptions relate solely to
                 rural residential zones and residential uses, and are inapplicable to the
                 present application for a public utility use in the PWS zone.

                 Written testimony from the DLCD indicated an opinion that a Goal 3
                 reasons Exception was not appropriate unless the proposed use is “not
                 allowed by the applicable goal’. DLCD Staff further opined that ORS
                 215.275 permits utility uses on EFU lands. No legal authority was offered
                 to support the DLCD position in the case of a 2-acre substation in an
                 existing zone require minimum parcel sizes of 80 acres. The Board finds
                 that:

                 1)    Applicant has a compelling need in the public interest, welfare and
                       safety to own and secure land on which municipal electrical
                       substation facilities will be located; and
                 2)    Applicant's need for a 2-acre parcel is in conflict with the 80-acre
                        minimum parcel size in the current zone; and
                 3)     The location of the proposed site in relation to existing BPA power
                        line and the grid system of applicant’s power system requires use
                        of existing efu zoned land; and
                 4)     Applicant cannot acquire the needed     parcel size under the current
                        zoning; and
                 5)     The County’s EFU zone is designed to preserve and protect large
                        farm land holdings’ and
                 6)     The acquisition of an 80-acre parce) by Applicant would under cut
                        the County's policy favoring preservation of large agricultural
                        holdings; and
                 7)     The PWS zone requested by applicant is limited to the area
                        needed for the requested utility activity; and
                 8)     That applicant's requested activity “is not allowed by the applicable
                        goal” and cannot be undertaken as proposed in the existing EFU
                        zone and therefore a reasons Exception to Goal 3 is justified.

fil.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN              GOALS AND POLICIES

       SECTION IV.     Public Land, Facilities, and Services

       Policy:         The County sees a need to integrate public facilities and services in an
                       effort to eliminate costs and conserve energy.

       Related Findings:

       1.        McMinnville Water and Light is a singular public power and water utility
                  serving the entire City of McMinnville and surrounding area.
          Electrical systems    are a unique        public service        often     owned     by public
          bodies.

          McMinnville Water and Light serves electricity to a population of more than
          40,000 residents and businesses representing more than one third of the
          existing Yamhill County population.

          There is a need to plan for, locate and provide public electrical distribution
          facilities for public protection purposes.

          No alternative appropriately zoned area is available and suitable                           to
          expand existing McMinnville Water & Light substation facilities.

The selected location for the new substation is adjacent to the existing public
rights of way and existing electrical facilities and will maximize the integration of
existing and future electrical distribution facilities.

6.        Location of the new facility will enable McMinnville Water and Light staff to
          monitor and maintain the site simultaneously with other facilities, thus
          reducing the time, vehicle mileage and energy costs associated with such
          activities.

Policy:          It is a concern of the county to regulate public and quasi-public
                 institutional uses within rural areas of the county.

Related Findings:

1.        The County has a legitimate interest in assuring the future availability of
          adequate electrical supplies and related activities within the mid-county
          area.

2.        The location of the proposed site is a major advantage to a coordinated
          mid-county electrical distribution grid available for public service.

3.        Health, electrical service, water quality and fire and life safety concerns
          are legitimate county interests in connection with the future development
          of the City of McMinnville and surrounding areas.

Goal Statement:

                To develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement                        of public
                services and facilities to serve as a framework for urban                     and rural
                development,     including     public     lands     and    buildings,        parks   and
                recreation   areas   and   facilities,   schools,   police    and     fire   protection,
                     domestic water supply, sanitary and storm sewerage and                other
                     drainage facilities, and power, gas and telephone services. (166)

     Related Findings:

     1.        Electrical distribution facilities are a legitimate type of PWS use,
               established as a permitted use in a county PWS zone. By their nature,
               electrical substation facilities require extremely long term planning
               horizons to assure continuity of service.
     2.        McMinnville Water and Light started providing water and electrical service
               in 1889, and has served for generations and thousands of local families.
     3.        Additional area, located nearby to the existing facilities is needed to serve
               the long term expansion needs of the City of McMinnville.
     4.        The last increase to MW&L electrical substation facilities occurred in 2000
               with the construction of the Baker Creek Substation.
     5.        Additional substation facilities will be developed as necessary, and subject
               to conditions of approval appropriate to those future requests.         Three
               additional substations are currently in development at the proposed site, in
               the Grand Haven area, and at the Loop Road/Highway 18 location.

     Policy:          Yamhill County will coerdinate with the cities and appropriate local,
                      state, and federal agencies in providing for the health and service
                      needs of the public, particularly the needs of the disadvantaged,
                      including the young, the elderly and the handicapped.

     Related Findings:

     1.        The entire existing McMinnville Water and        Light system   is presently a
               model of public electrical service facilities.

     2.        McMinnville Water and Light is responsible for provided essential public
               services consisting of electrical power, potable water and fire protection
               water flows to protect the McMinnville area population including the most
               vulnerable young, elderly and handicapped portions of the population.

     3.        Only the City of McMinnville has the facilities or funding       to serve     the
               power, water and fire flow needs of the public.

     4.        Prompt and continuous provision of electrical power and water and fire
               flow services has long been a primary health need of focal citizens and
               requirement of local governments.

     TRANSPORTATION PLANNING RULE

10
1.     The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must
be addressed. OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

          (7)        Amendments te functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and
                     land use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall
                     assure that allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function,
                     capacity, and level of service of the facility.         This shall be accomplished by
                     either:
                     {a)       Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                               capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;
                     (b)       Amending the TSP          [Transportation System      Plan] to provide
                               transportation facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses
                               consistent with the requirements of this division; or,
                     ()        Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to
                               reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through
                               other modes.

          (2)        A plan or land use regulation                amendment        significantly        affects   a
                     transportation facility if it:
                     (a)       Changes   the   functional   classification    of an   existing     or     planned
                               transportation facility;
                     (b)       Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
                     {c)       Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of
                               travel or access which are inconsistent with the functional
                               classification of a transportation facility; or
                     (d)       Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                               acceptable level identified in the TSP.

          Regarding (1) and (2), there are no known transportation issues with the
          proposed use. Neither the Oregon Department of Transportation nor the Yamhill
          County Public Works Department has raised concerns that existing and
          proposed electrical facilities would exceed the capacity of Old Sheridan Road.

          PARTITION CRITERIA AND FINDINGS

     1.         In the PWS District, the following standards and limitations shall apply:

                A.   Dwelling Density.

                     Not more than one (1) dwelling shall be permitted on any parcel.

                B,   Parcel Size and Dimension.

il
                   i.     Minimum   Parcel Size,

                          The minimum parcel size shall be 20,000 square feet, plus 20,000 square feet
                          for any dwelling.

                   2.     Depth-to-Width     Ratio,

                          The maximum      depth-to-width   ratio for any newly-created parcel shall be 3:1,

     C.        Setbacks,

               The minimum setback              for all yards    shall   be   twenty   (20)   feet for all uses,
               except as follows:

                   1.     The minimum      setback shall be five (5) feet for all yards for signs.

                   2.     Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the
                          edge of any yard, subject to the clear-vision requirements of subsection
                          802.07(F). [Amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

              . Parcel Coverage.

               The maximum parcel coverage shall be appropriate to the use, subject to
               Section 1101 for site design review.

          .    Access.

               Before a dwelling may be established on any parcel as provided in this
               section, the parcel shall have a legal, safe and passable means of access by
               abutting at least twenty (20) feet either directly upon a public road, or by a
               private easement which is at least thirty (30) feet in width for its entire length
               and which also abuts upon a public road for at jeast thirty (30) feet. Nothing
               in this section shall be construed to vary or waive the requirements for
               creation of new access contained in any Land Division Ordinance fegally
               adopted by Yamhill County.

               Clear-Vision Areas.

               A clear-vision area shall be maintained on the corner of any parcel at the
               intersection of any two of the following: county roads; public roads; private
               roads serving four or more parcels; and railroads. A clear-vision area shall
               contain no sight-obscuring structures or plantings exceeding thirty (30)
               inches in height within a triangle formed by the lot corner nearest the
               intersection, and the two points twenty (20) feet from this corner is measured
               along the parcel lines adjacent to the intersection rights-of way. Trees
               exceeding this height may be located such that their branches extend into
               this triangle, provided they are maintained to allow at least twelve (12) feet
               of visual clearance within the triangle below the lowest hanging branches.

              . Height.

12
                       i.   The maximum     building height for any dwetling shall be thirty-five (35) feet;

                      2.    The   maximum   building   height for all other structures shall   be sixty (60) feet;
                            and

                      3.    Appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
                            intended for human occupancy such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas,
               .            water tanks, ventilators, chimneys and wind generators are not subject to the
                            height limitations of this ordinance.

          H.       Off-street Parking.

                   Off-street parking and loading requirements for any use in the PWS                 District
                   shall be as provided in Section 1007.

     Related Findings:

      1.     Applicant proposes to divide the entire two acre area zoned for PWS into
     a single parcel; separate from the remaining 35.5 acres of the original two
     parcels. This meets the minimum PWS parcel size of 20,000 square feet. The
     remaining 35.5 acres will remain zoned as at present.

     2.      No residence will be constructed, and depth to width requirements for the
     configuration of the new parcel is satisfied.

     3.      Future electrical facilities will be constructed in conformance with ail
     setback requirements. Access is via Old Sheridan Road or Highway 18 and will
     not require any new roadway improvements.

     4.     Clear vision and height standards will be applicable. Off street parking
     requirements will and can conform to YCZO Section 1007.

     5.            There is no existing septic system.

     6.            The site is within two miles of the city limits of McMinnville.

     7.     The approximate location of anticipated electrical facilities is shown on the
     submitted draft preliminary partition plat map.

     8.            The property is located within the McMinnville Rural Fire District.

     9.            The property is not located in a flood plain, or area of erosion,                       is not
     located on an area of steep slopes, does not contain fish or wildlife habitat areas,
     and has soil conditions                sufficient for construction        of the    proposed      electrical
     distribution facilities.

13                                                                                               0.08 -S46
     y9C9g                                                                                                                                                       6007    48quaceg        |¢   aiqomauay
                                                   TLELL-SO      ‘ZOL#   SIP
                                                   WINLIWNID     “LOO     oy                we                   oo 'sossojayounp@}OW;                                            2rel                _
                                                                                                                                   0W                              fon                   MAHL       LOW
                                                                                       Pcp                                 L9C0-ZLp-COG                  :xo4                NOoau0

                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lt
                                                                                                                                                                                                           = 0, 06° Sb
                                                        .                               -                          vO6L-ZLe-COG                  =: auoUY
                        6SHOIG    UPN O8 “G"H
                                           7% dl “409"90 MN liluu oa
                                                               WOYy            :
                                                                                   YE        0 o,                 BZ1L6         uoBesg ‘aiAuUWoW
                                                                                                                            OAL        SpISJeAIN GO/¢
                                       SOLOLL       M,0Z.2S.81N
               ‘CLOLL-SO                                                                                                 ‘O0SSY   3        [ex0UNG      10W
                            ‘6OL# SID       UNUlLUN;O       “L-9'G’O                                                                                                    YOASANNS              GNVI
                                                                                                                                                                        TWNOISS3IJONd
                                                                                                                                                                  \_aaaaisioay                        ij
                 97ZEIG6BL Sul                                                                            szzeis661 Eu)
                  OOL-IEbe UL                                                                               OOl-lebr 1
                      NWHIO                                                                               184, WWHOTO
                                                     Ka                                                                            SSpy—-dSO
                                                                                                                                            “dlaZ/t
                                                   WS       M86,87.68N             3
     SSheb    ~dSQ
                                               ¥     > _ lp ore
                                                                                             VOIZOL        M,8C,8Z.68N      oe                  array
 ‘ua         "yLZ/1                                                                          (S#di ©) 8°Z201 3,1¢.68s)
                                                        Z0Z Sg   IL AS
                                                        O008-Ofrr UL
                                                              JOM
                                                                                                                                                                8007      “9984     OL        ‘8}0q
                                                                                                                   OOl      —     ify            BP     OOLZ       - OSpy            "J07 xoy
                                                                                                                                           HO         ‘Ayunos      yuo,
                                                                                                    “AM    Mb     CSS        &    CL       LE         uonoes      0/1      AN       ‘uo0907
                                                                                                          Toye OT[LAUUTWOW
        8089~-dSO jO 4auUI09
3S    JO uonisod paypjnojoo
     Si      “UMOP OL    “ULB/G
                                   8089~dS9
                                                                                                                  649                 cg              4. «        FEQtIaxy