BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                    FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                     SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Amending the Urban Growth Boundary (UGB)          _)
to take a Parcel] located at 1260 E Main Street, Yamhill, into the )
Yamhill UGB, being an 18.5 acre portion of Tax Lot 3403-1400)                    Ordinance 847
and 1.5 acres of Tax Lot 3404AD-907, Planning Docket PA-02-08,)
Applicants Van Dyke Riverview Farms LLC & Tim Landauer,                    )
and Declaring an Emergency                                                 )

          THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat
for the transaction of county business on November 4, 2009, Commissioners Leslie Lewis, Kathy
George and Mary P. Stern being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Van Dyke Riverview Farms LLC and Tim Landauer
requested that an 18.5 acre portion of Tax Lot 3403-1400 and 1.5 acres of Tax Lot 3404AD-907 be taken into
the into the Yamhill UGB, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Yamhill Urban Area Management Commission
heard this matter at a duly noticed public hearing on May             18, 2009 and unanimously voted to
receommend approval to the Board, and the Board held a duly noticed public hearing on October 28,
2009, and voted unanimously to approve the application, NOW, THEREFORE,

          IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as detailed
in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit "A" and by this reference incorporated herein. This
ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizensof Yamhill County, and an
emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.        A map is appended as Exhibit 'B".

          DONE this 4th day of November, 2009, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                               1g, AMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

REBEKAH STERN DOA                           s          md             aa
County Clerk                ,                                       LESLIE LEWIS

ByUdi                     ANN                   1c)        ea             e
Deputy ‘Anne Bnitt              .       (       ssi                     HY GEORGE

APPROVED AS TO FORM."                                 RA                          =
     2     Ow         .                 Commissioner            \   MARY P. STERN

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                           Ordinance    847   ~   Page   1
                                                                               B.0- 09-F64
Findings for Approval - Exhibit A”

DOCKET NO.:           PA-02-08

REQUEST:              To amend the Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) to take in approximately 20 acres into the
                      Yamhill UGB. Approval of the request would allow eventual inclusion of the property
                      into the city limits for light industrial use.

APPLICANT:                     Van Dyke Riverview Farms LLC and Tim Landauer

TAX LOT:              An 18.5 acre portion of 3403-1400 and 1.5 acres described as 3404AD-907

LOCATION:             1260 E Main Street, Yamhill, Oregon

CRITERIA:             Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies, Yamhill Urban Area
                      Management Agreement, Statewide Planning Goals, Oregon Revised Statute 197.298
                      and the Oregon Administrative Rules, including OAR 660-012-0060.

       Background Facts:
>

       Site Characteristics: The Site Characteristics are found on page 4 of the original application
       which is incorporated here by this reference, in its entirety. The 20 acres proposed for inclusion
       in the Yamhill urban growth boundary (UGB) will be referred to as the “subject site.”

       Water and sewer: City of Yamhill.

       Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: Property to the north and south is zoned EF-80 Exclusive
       Farm use and contains grass or grain crops. Property to the east, along the railroad is zoned HI
       Heavy Industrial. The majority of the property to the west of the site is zoned VLDR 2.5 Very
       Low Density Residential and has been split into rural residential homesites that average 2.5 acres
       in size. The portion west of the Landauer property is within the Yamhill city limits, and is zoned
       for residential use.

       Fire Protection: Yamhill Rural Fire District.

       Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the majority of the subject site is made up of
       Amity (Am) and Woodburn (WuB) soils, which are rated as Class Il high-value farmland.
       Approximately 5 acres is made up of Wapato Silty Clay Loam (Wc) which is rated as Class II]
       non-high-value farmland. Most of the Wapato soils are within the flood hazard overlay zone.

       Previous Actions: The eastern portion of the subject parcel that is zoned HI Heavy Industrial was
       assigned in Ordinance No. 202 which was adopted as a 10-acre exception area on June 20, 1979.
       Ordinance No. 202 listed this site as “Mill Operation, Grain Elevator/Storage.”

                                                                       Ordinance   847   -   Page   2
Docket PA-02-08
Page 3

7.   Procedure: The Yamhill Urban Area Growth Management Agreement governs the procedures
     for processing   a UGB amendment.       The application went before the Yamhill Urban Area
     Management Commission (YUAMC)           for a public hearing.   The YUAMC         made findings and
     forwarded its unanimous decision to receommend approval of the application the Yamhill City
     Council and the Board of County Commissioners.      The agreement states “Each governing body
     may then make a determination based upon the facts and record presented at the                     YUAMC
     hearing and shall not be required to hold a public hearing thereon.”

8.   Flood Hazard Overlay: Flood Insurance Rate Map 410249 0133C shows the western portion of
     the subject property is within the flood hazard overlay zone.  The County GIS shows
     approximately 6.25 acres as being in the 100-year floodplain.

9.   Coordinated Population Projection: ORS 195.036 requires the County to establish and maintain
     a population forecast for use in maintaining and updating comprehensive plans, and to coordinate
     the forecast with each of the cities in the county.      In order for the population figure to be
     coordinated, the Board of Commissioners adopted        Board Order 01-582 which identifies the
     Planning Director as the person responsible for coordinating the number.     The process that the
     Planning Department uses is that the City presents their population projection and a report for
     said projection. The City officials did that on November 4, 2008. On November 24, 2008, the
     Yamhill County Planning Director issued a letter to the city of Yamhill confirming the City’s
     2030 population estimate of 1,525 and noting that this number will need to be adopted with the
     next amendment to the Urban Growth Boundary (UGB). Ina March 6, 2009, e-mail from Gary
     Fish, DLCD, he indicated that Board Order 01-582 was not in compliance with ORS               195.036.
     It should be noted that at the time this procedure was adopted in 2001 it was in compliance with
     ORS 195.036 because previous DLCD staff had evaluated the Board Order and found nothing
     legally incorrect with the procedure. It does not appear that the language of ORS 195.036 has
     changed, so it is not clear as to why this procedure is out of compliance with the statute.

     In addition, Mr. Fish had indicated on the last sentence in his letter of October 10, 2008, that,
     “Neither the Yamhill County TSP 2014 forecast nor the 2017 city and county estimates used in
     the application comply with the necessary population forecast requirements.” While Mr. Fish
     may be correct on the 2017 estimate, he is incorrect about the 2014 forecast. The 2014 forecast
     complies because it was acknowledged by DLCD when it was adopted in 1996 as part of the
     County’s Transportation System Plan. In fact, in 1997 attorneys from the Department of Justice
     asked questions about the 2014 estimate and concluded that it was in compliance with the (then
     newly adopted) population coordination statute. The county Planning office has used this forecast
     as a reference point ever since it was adopted.

     Mr. Fish suggests adopting a 2008-2028 forecast and having it adopted at the same time the UGB
     is adopted. The supplemental report prepared by the applicant has a 2028 population estimate of
     1,390. The Board hereby adopts this number.

                                                                     Ordinance   847    -   Page    3
Docket PA-02-08
Page 4

B.       Urban Area Growth Management Agreement Provisions

1.       Criteria to be addressed in UGB amendment requests include the Yamhill Urban Area Growth
         Management Agreement, the statewide planning goals, and the City and County Comprehensive
         Plans. The review standards from the first three of these are detailed in the application and city
         staff report. Consideration of the Yamhill County Goals and Policies will be discussed below.

         Even though the majority of the Yamhill County Goals and Policies are aspirational and are not
         to be mistaken for, or treated as, approval criteria, it is important that they be considered. Some
         of the goals and policies seem to conflict with one another. They are simply to be used as a guide
         to aid decision makers.   For example, where goals or policies conflict the decision makers need
         to weigh the evidence and decide which goal or policy the request satisfies. Therefore, in each
         case, the YUAMC would need to decide whether the subject site and exclusion site are more
         appropriate to be preserved as farm land or it is better suited for orderly urban development. The
         following goals and policies are part of this determination.

         The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section I.A., Goal 1, directs County:

                To encourage the containment of growth within existing urban centers,
                provide for the orderly, staged, diversified and compatible development
                of all of the cities of Yamhill County, and assure an efficient transition
                from rural to urban land use.

         To assure there is an efficient transition from rural to urban land uses there needs to be a
         demonstration of the need for additional urban land and a determination of the most suitable
         location for land of that identified need. With a grant from the state of Oregon, the City
         developed a report on the need for industrial and commercial lands within the city limits of
         Yamhill. The report is titled City of Yamhill Industrial Land Project 2006. Presently the City
         does not have any industrial land within the city limits that is available or appropriate for said use.
         The 2006 report identified the need and desired characteristics for land to be designated industrial.
         Those characteristics are listed on page 3 of the supplemental narrative submitted by the
         applicant, which is hereby incorporated by this reference.

         After identifying the need, the next step is to evaluate the best locations/alternatives for locating
         the use. The first alternative is to look inside the existing UGB. Ifland is not available, the next
         step is to look at land outside of the UGB and to go through the priority list of lands available for
         expansion.   Pages 7-11 of the supplemental application go over this analysis.           Based on the
         evidence in the record, the Board finds that the UGB amendment is necessary and this is the best
         location compared with the alternatives. Based on the evidence in the record, the request would
         be an efficient transition from rural to urban use.

         The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section II, Goal 1, states:

                                                                          Ordinance     847   -   Page   4
Docket PA-02-08
Page 5

                   To conserve Yamhill County's farm land for the production of crops and
                   livestock and to ensure that the conversion of farm land to urban use
                   where necessary and appropriate occurs in an orderly and economical
                   manner.

         The property has historically been in farm use. The report prepared by the City identifies an
         estimated need of 44 acres ofcommercial and industrial land. The supplemental report submitted
         by the applicant shows six other alternative locations that were considered for expansion of the
         UGB. The Board finds the alternatives had attributes that made them not as suitable for inclusion
         in the UGB.

4,       The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section II, Goal 2, Policy a. states:

                   Yamhill County will continue to preserve those areas for farm use which exhibit Class I
                   through IV soils as identified in the Capability Classification System of the U.S. Soil
                   Conservation Service.

         Both of the subject parcels under review consist primarily of Woodburn silt loam (WuB) and
         Amity (Am) soils with some Wapato (Wc) non high-value soils. The Woodburn and Amity soils
         are identified as Class II soils by the SCS and are classified as high-value farmland. The site can,
         and has been utilized as farmland. The supplemental report prepared by the applicant compares
         the subject parcel with six other sites. As noted above, the addition of the subject site appears to
         provide the best opportunity for orderly development of property by providing needed area for
         urban expansion adjacent to the City, where services are available or can be readily extended,
         thereby avoiding leap-frog development or other land consumptive practices.

5.       The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section I, Goal 1, Economic Development directs the
         County:

                   To maintain a rate and pattern of economic growth sufficient to prevent recurring high
                   levels of unemployment and under-employment in the county, balance the real property
                   tax base of the various cities, and strengthen local economic bases.

         In the last ten years it has become evident that Oregon’s land use laws have shown that large
         blocks of industrial land are relatively rare. Industrial lands next to both a State highway and a
         railroad are rarer still. In 2001, the ailing economy spurred the Legislature to pass HB 3557,
         which appointed a special committee to investigate problems with the state’s commercial and
         industrial land supply. In 2003, with his second executive order, Governor Kulongoski
         established an Industrial Lands Taskforce. One of the jobs of the Taskforce was to study and
         identify “shovel ready” sites for industrial development. Through these actions, the importance
         of industrial land, especially a supply of large blocks of industrial land, was highlighted. While
         the proposed expansion would take away farmland adjacent to a city, the Board finds it promotes
         the economic development goal stated above.

                                                                         Ordinance    847   ~   Page   5
Docket PA-02-08
Page 6

CONCLUSION:
                                                                to add approximately 20-acres of
The request is to amend the Yamhill Urban Growth Boundary (UGB)
                                                                                  s the Yamhill County
land for industrial use. The applicant has demonstrated that the request satisfie
                                                                     Record as a whole.
Comprehensive Plan goals and policies by substantial evidence in the

DECISION:
                                                                                          mately 20 acres is
         The request to amend the Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) to take in approxi
                                                                                                (as described
         hereby approved with a limited use overlay which limits uses to light industrial uses
                                                                                        ted on the Yamhill
         in Yamhill County Zoning ordinance §702). The property shall be designa
                                                                                       , the County adopts
         County comprehensive plan map as “Future Urbanizable” land. In addition
         the Yamhill population projection of 1,390 by the year 2028.

                                                                   Files\OLK DEM VanDykeOrdFinds.wpd
C:\Documents and Settings\whitec\Local Settings\Temporary Internet

                                                                                                       B.0.09-He4
                                                                                            Ordinance     847   -   Page   6
                 EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 847
                          PLAN AMENDMENT               ;
      ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                  November 4, 2009
              FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
                 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING
                                   TO
                           FUTURE URBANIZABLE
               AND TO ADOPT A LIMITED USE OVERLAY ZONE
                  TO LIMIT THE USE TO LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
                   eS
                eS a
                EROS

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOTS 3403-1400 AND A PORTION OF 3404AD-907 AS IDENTIFIED ABOVE.
APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 200 FEET                                 BO -09-HO49
                                                                          ace BY
                                                                         Pege7