rin OO vce 2L9
            IN THE BOARD     OF COMMISSIONERS            OF THE STATE OF OREGON             Jp    “e

                              FOR THE COUNTY            OF YAMHILL

                 SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION              OF COUNTY       BUSINESS    \_

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the
Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974) to

                                                            eee
Change the Designation from VLDR (Very Low
Density Residential) to Public Facility and
Amending the Official Zoning Map from                                ORDINANCE       609

                                                            ee
VLDR 2.5 (Very Low Density Residential) to PWS

                                                            ee
(Public Works/Safety); Applicant Newberg Garbage

                                                            ee
Service;    Planning Docket PAZ-7-95;   and

                                                            Ne
Declaring an Emergency.

                                                            Ne
           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business in special session on May 22, 1996 Commissioners
Robert Johnstone, Thomas E. E. Bunn, and Dennis L. Goecks, being present.

         WHEREAS, on December 18, 1995 the Department of Planning and Development
received an application by Newberg Garbage Service ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-7-95,
to change the comprehensive plan designation from Very Low Density Residential to Public
Facility, and to amend the Official Zoning Map from VLDR 2.5 (Very Low Density Residential)
to PWS (Public Works/Safety) on a 13.4 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 3228-1200; and

        WHEREAS, on February 22, 1996 the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a
public hearing to consider the application and thereafter unanimously approved the zone change
and recommended to the Board of Commissioners approval of the comprehensive plan and
zoning amendments; and

        WHEREAS, on April 10, 1996, the Board held a public hearing on the application at
which testimony and evidence was received, and that following the close of the hearing and the
record, the Board deliberated and voted unanimously to tentatively approve the application for
the comprehensive plan amendment and zone change and directed staff to prepare an ordinance
and findings in support of approval; and

        WHEREAS, the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated
herein by this reference provide justification for approval of the application for the amendment
to the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map, and Official Zoning Map of Yamhill
County and the taking of an exception to Statewide Land Use Planning Goals 3, 4 and 10 to the
extent an exception to the Statewide Planning Goals is required, and that approval thereof is in
the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill County;    Now Therefore,

           THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

                                                                                 ORDINANCE       609
                                                                                            Page 1                ;
                                                                                                       \INDEXED
                                                                                           20. 90-8 8/
                                                                          rux GO vce 220
              Section 1.         The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan and Plan Map (1974) are hereby
 amended as specified in the attached Exhibit "B", made part of this ordinance by reference, to
 reflect a plan designation of "Public Facility" described and shown in Exhibit "B".

        Section 2.     In adopting the plan amendment specified in this ordinance, to the extent
that an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3, 4, and 10 are required, the County hereby takes
an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3, 4, and 10.

        Section 3.   The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended as
specified in the attached Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning designation of "PWS Public
Works/Safety District".

        Section 4.    The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference
are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

         Section 5.   This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon
passage.

              QONE-at,. McMinnville, Oregon this PAadday of May, 1996.
         Pe BOND apt,
                    sy,
                                                     a
                                              YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD            OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                    P  hOott  ace Mis
                                              Chairman  RPBERT JOHNSTONE
     Q    S                .     '              a

By:( “zat                             Licht        [bomer— @_E,             Ao
Deputy CAROL ANN                     WHITE    Commissioner        THOMAS       E. E. BUNN

FORM APPROYED BY:                               is             f           AA
ALMA
SOHN C. PINKSTAFF
                                                      Z.
                                              Commissioner
                                                                     f.
                                                                  DENNIS L. GOECKS
Assistant County Counsel

H: \ADMIN\ PINKSTU\LU\ 96 .137

                                                                                      ORDINANCE   609
                                                                                               Page 2
                                            EXHIBIT "A"                    FILM   60     PAGE   221
                                            Ordinance 609

PLANNING COMMISSION REFERRAL:                       March 7, 1996

PRELIMINARY APPROVAL BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                                    May 1, 1996

ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                                   May 22, 1996

DOCKET:                        PAZ-7-95

REQUEST:                       Comprehensive Plan amendment from Very Low Density Residen-
                               tial to Public Facility and a zone change from VLDR                2.5 Very
                               Low Density Residential to PWS Public Works/Safety District

APPLICANT:                     Newberg Garbage Service

TAX LOT:                       3228-1200

LOCATION:                      Southwest of the intersection of Wynooski Road and the St. Paul
                               Highway

REVIEW     CRITERIA:           Sections    502,   802,   and   1208   of the   Yamhill   County     Zoning
                               Ordinance and Oregon Administrative Rules sections 660-04 and
                               660-12
FINDINGS:

A.   Background Facts:

1.   Property size:    13.4 acres

2.   Access:   Wynooski Road

3.    On-site Land Use:    There is an existing single family dwelling located near the southeast
     corner of the property.     The north end of the property has been leveled and prepared for
     expansion of the transfer station.      The southern end of the property slopes off steeply into
     a ravine.

4.   Surrounding Land Use:       Property to the north of the subject property is inside the
     Newberg city limits. Property further to the north contains rural residential uses. Land
     to the south and east contains rural residential and small farm uses. The adjacent parcel
     to the west contains the Newberg Transfer Station. Property further to the east contains
     a mixture of rural residential and heavy industrial uses.

                                                                                     Exhibit "A" - Page 1
                                                                                            Ordinance 609
                                                                            FILM   60    PACE     222

      Surrounding Zoning: Land north of the subject property is inside the Newberg city limits
      and is zoned M-2 Light Industrial District. Lands to the south and east are zoned AF-20
      Agriculture/Forestry. Property to the west is zoned PWS Public Works\Safety. Lands
      further to the west are a mixture of VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential 2.5 and
      HI Heavy Industrial.

      Soils: Sheet 22 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey indicates the area of the proposed
      zone change and conditional use is composed of the following soils:

      Soil Type (Symbol)            % Slope                %_of Property           Ag Class

      Woodburn           =(WuB)          0-7                      35                     II
      Terrace
      Escarpments (Te)                   ---                      35                     VI
      Aloha              (Ah)            0-3                      25                     Il
      Amity              (Am)            0-2                       5                     II

      Fire Protection:      Newberg Rural Fire District

      Taxes:    Tract Land.

      Previous Actions: Docket L-33-94 allowed a lot line adjustment between the subject
      property and the adjacent transfer and recycling station. The neighboring property, tax
      lot 3228-1700, contains the existing transfer and recycling station. The following are the
      docket items that have been approved on this parcel.         Docket PA-127-83/Z-239-83
      approved a Plan amendment and zone change from VLDR 2.5 to PWS. Docket SDR-3-
      83 approved a site design review for the Newberg Garbage Service’s existing facility.
      Docket    SDR-10-95         approved     a site design review    for the addition of a 60x100’
      maintenance building on Newberg Garbage Service’s existing facility.

10.   Other Factors: FIRM map 410249 0187 shows none of the property is within the 100-
      year floodplain. July 19, 1995 this property was designated as part of Newberg’s Urban
      Reserve Area (URA).

      Transportation Planning Rule

      OAR 660, Division 12, is the "Transportation Planning Rule."             Certain land-use actions
      are subject to provisions of the rule. OAR 660-12-060 states:

      ()       Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land
               use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that
               allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level
               of service of the facility.       This shall be accomplished by either:

               (a)       Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with planned                 function,
                         capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;

                                                                                    Exhibit "A" - Page 2
                                                                                              Ordinance 609
                                                              rILR   60    ALE    223
        (b)     Amending the TSP to provide transportation facilities adequate to support
                the proposed land uses consistent with the requirements of this division;
                or,

        (c)     Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

(2)    A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
       facility if it:

       (a)     Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned transporta-
               tion facility;

       (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;

       (c)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel
               or access which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
               transportation facility; or

       (d)    | Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                acceptable level identified in the TSP.

(3)    Determinations under subsection (1) and (2) of this section shall be coordinated
       with affected transportation facility and service providers and other affected local
       or state governments.

The applicant has provided a study prepared by Kittelson and Associates regarding a
traffic impact analysis. The study was prepared to discuss the impact of the Newberg
Fuel Company facility on Wynooski Road. The study examines the level of service on
Wynooski Road, Sandoz Road and Highway 219. This study was sent to the Oregon
Department of Transportation and the Yamhill County Public Works Department for
referral and both agencies indicated they found no conflicts.

The Board finds that the application satisfies OAR 660, Division 12, the "Transportation
Planning Rule," particularly the provisions of OAR 660-12-060.

Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

This request is for a zone change from VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential to PWS
Public Works/Safety and Plan amendment to Public Facilities for 13.42 acres, in order
to allow expansion of the Newberg Transfer Station.

The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and criteria in
YCZO    Section 1208.02,   which provides as follows:

"A.   | That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
        applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

                                                                          Exhibit "A" - Page 3
                                                                                 Ordinance 609
                                                                                 FILM      60    PAGE    2r4

          "B.      That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                   requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
a

                   economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
                   the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
                   uses allowed by the zone.

          "C.      That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses,
                   the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                   occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability
                   of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                   district.

          "D.      That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are either
                   unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
                   other factors.

          "E.       That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules
                   for exceptions, if applicable.

          The findings regarding these criteria are provided in subsections C.3 through C.7 below.

          The Board finds that the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
          other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, as required by YCZO 1208.03
          A as follows.

    3.1   Regarding applicable Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, criteria (a) above, there are
          several references in the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan to solid waste and recycling
          facilities.   Section   IV.A.   Public   Facilities   and   Services     notes    in.the      summary   that,
          "Recycling of solid waste materials conserves               natural resources         and energy.       Goal
          Statement 1 of this section directs the county:

                   "To develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of public services and
                   facilities to serve as a framework for urban and rural development, including
                   public lands and buildings, parks and recreation areas and facilities, schools,
                   police and fire protection, domestic water supply, sanitary and storm sewerage
                   and other drainage facilities, and power, gas and telephone services."

    3.2   Policy statement | of this goal states:

                   "Yamhill County will encourage and cooperate with regional solid waste
                   management programs in scale with the county’s needs and subject to equitable
                   cost sharing arrangements for each of the services and facilities developed on a
                   regional basis."

    3.3   Section V A. Air, Water and land Resource Quality, Policy e of Goal 1 is:

                                                                                                 Exhibit "A" - Page 4
                                                                                                         Ordinance 609
                                                               FILM   60   PACE   2P5

             “In order to maintain and improve the quality of the county’s air, water and land
             resources, Yamhill County will seek to minimize irreversible and other long-term
             impacts in its development of energy resource; support efforts, where feasible,
             for the appropriate and efficient recovery of energy as a means to reduce waste
             problems; and encourage a program to recover and recycle used motor oil."

3.4   Section VI Energy Conservation Policy k states:

             “Yamhill county will encourage programs for resource recovery and recycling of
             solid wastes."

3.5   The Goals and Policies cited above direct the county to encourage the type of use
      proposed by the applicant.      In accomplishing these goals, the county must also be
      sensitive to the concerns of Newberg. Section V Goal Statement 2 directs the county to:

             “To preserve and enhance the charm and amenity values of the county, while
             accommodating change, through ensuring harmony between urban development
             and the natural environment, at the same time cultivating more attractive urban
             environments in which to live, work and play."

3.6   To assure that the development satisfies this Goal, a Site Design Review Process would
      be required.

      The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses
      allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry
      or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
      the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
      allowed by the zone, as required by YCZO 1208.02 B.

4.1   Regarding the need for the proposed use, criteria (b), the applicant stated:

      "The expansion that is occurring at Newberg Garbage is justified and necessary from
      several standpoints. First, it is needed to meet the DEQ’s requirements for growth of
      recycling in Yamhill County. "

      "In an effort to meet the mandated DEQ recycling percentages and expand recycling
      opportunities for area residents, the company plans to relocate the existing depots to
      company property as part of the proposed use of the expansion site. The site will
      provide the needed land area to add scrap paper and bottle neck plastics to the present
      recycling efforts. The new depot will continue to recycle newsprint, cardboard, food
      cans, milk jugs, magazines, glass bottles, aluminum and motor oil."

      ".,.Second, this change is needed to meet the logical growth of recycling and garbage
      services for the City of Newberg and east Yamhill County.       The City of Newberg’s
      population has grown approximately 34 percent since the transfer and recycling facilities
      were placed at the current location in 1985.    During that same period of time the
      population in Yamhill County has grown approximately 30 percent.           This growth

                                                                             Exhibit "A" - Page 5
                                                                                     Ordinance 609
                                                                    FILM   60     PACE     226

      creates a logical and reasonable need for expansion of the facility. Combined with the
      DEQ request for recycle increases and the need for staff monitored recycling it is clear
      that the expansion to this site of the type proposed is not only logical but is in fact
      necessary and the least cost alternative."

4.2   The Department of Environmental Quality regulations the applicant is referring to were
      contained in Senate Bill 1089. The bill allows the Yamhill wasteshed to avoid penalties
      if it achieves a 30 percent recovery rate during 1996. ORS 459A.010(1) requires that
      by January 1, 2000, the amount of recovery from the general solid waste stream shall
      be at least 50 percent.

4.3   Regarding the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for
      the uses allowed by the zone the applicant attached a list of other similarly zoned
      property.     Many of these parcels have existing uses located on them. The applicant
      states there is no property available that would be suitable for expansion or relocation of
      the facility in either the city or the county, but did not give specific reasons for each
      parcel.

      The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
      uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
      occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
      utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district,
      as required by YCZO 1208.02 C.

3.1   The applicant discusses in various sections of their application the appropriateness of the
      request. Regarding the surrounding land uses, the applicant states on page 16, "The
      property is near other industrial and public facility sites, such as Smurfit Newsprint and
      the City of Newberg wastewater treatment facility..."        They then list interactions the
      company has with other industrial uses in the area. They then state on page 17, "This
      interaction makes the current location of Newberg Garbage Services and its expansion
      there of particular importance in cost saving and traffic reduction in the Newberg area."
      These statements are true. Much of the property north and west of this site, both in the
      county and city, is zoned for light and heavy industrial uses. As indicated in Finding
      A.5 the property immediately north of the subject parcel is in the city limits and zoned
      M-2 Light Industrial District.

5.2   The Newberg City Council passed a resolution November 6, 1995 that is included as
      Exhibit I, and which states that the city opposes rezoning or other land use request that
      would allow for more intense use of the property cast of the existing transfer station.
      In this resolution the City advised that the development may adversely impact the City’s
      1) roadway and transportation system; 2) adjacent land uses; 3) future extension of water
      and sewer services; and 4) the aesthetic desirability.   However, the City subsequently
      appeared before the Board and informed the Board that the City had reached an
      agreement with the applicant regarding the city’s concerns and that the City was
      withdrawing their objections based on applicant’s agreement to make certain street and
      other site improvements. Therefore, the Board finds that the issues raised by the City
      have been withdrawn and are no longer required to be considered.

                                                                                Exhibit "A" - Page 6
                                                                                         Ordinance 609
                                                                 rin OO race 227
3.3   On the other hand, the Board finds that even if the issues previously raised by the City
      were required to be considered, the Board is persuaded that the evidence previously
      submitted by the city did not undermine the substantial evidence in the record that the
      proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the density and
      pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity
      to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services likely to
      be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.    Regarding the first concern,
      the Board agrees with the applicant evidence that the road providing access to the site has
      been constructed to accommodate a load of 3,100 vehicles per day and is therefore
      adequate for the proposed use. The applicants have also submitted a traffic report that
      discusses the intersections and traffic flow in this area. The second concern is discussed.
      in the paragraph 5.1 of this finding. Regarding the third concern, the applicant indicates
      that the existing water line would not be moved or modified. The sewer line for the area
      has not been installed.      Their fourth concern, aesthetic desirability, is adequately
      addressed by the site design review process. When construction of the transfer station
      will require approval of a site design review. The site design review will likely result
      in requirements for certain site improvements, including landscaping or screening of
      adjacent uses, and these requirements will assure compliance with this approval criteria.

      The Board finds that other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use
      are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size,
      or other factors, as required by YCZO 1208.02 D. The availability of other lands in the
      county which would allow the proposed uses was discussed in Finding C.4 above.

      The Board finds that the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative
      Rules for exceptions, if applicable.      The   OAR   requirements   for an exception     are
      addressed in Section D of this report.

      Oregon Administrative Rules - Exceptions

      An exception from the statewide agricultural goal was finally approved by Yamhill
      County in 1982 that plan designated and zoned the property for rural residential use.
      Therefore, the Board finds that an exception to the agricultural goal is not necessary.

      The Board finds that even if an exception to the agricultural goal were required, that the
      proposed use justifies a "reasons" exception under ORS 197.732(1)(c) and OAR 660-04-
      020   and 022.

2.1   The applicant has satisfied the requirements of OAR 660-04-022, namely that there is a
      demonstrated need for the proposed use or activity, based on one or more of the
      requirements of Statewide Goals 3 to 19. the subject site is in rural residential zoning
      and has one home on the corner of the property. The site was part of an area earlier
      excepted from resource use, agriculture and forest, through the county wide exception
      process, for rural residential use. The proposed use for a waste transfer recycling and
      storage.   The site is in an area that has been in transition form rural residential to
      industrial and public works use since 1984. In the early 1980’s the county approved plan
      and zoning designations on adjacent and adjoining land to allow heavy industrial and

                                                                               Exhibit "A" - Page 7
                                                                                      Ordinance 609
                                                                               riux 60 ace 228
      public works type uses.          An Application by Publishers Paper (Smurfit Newsprint) to
      rezone     Tax   Lot 3229-600,    from    Rural   Residential   VLDR     2-1/2   to Public    Facilities,
      Public Works Safety, was approved for the operation of the Newberg Garbage Service
      and Newberg Transfer and Recycling Center franchised solid waste collection, disposal
      and recycling operations immediately adjacent to this site. A conditional use approval
      authorized the siting and construction of the Newberg Wastewater Treatment Plant
      (WWTP) in the mid-1980’s By the end of the decade lands adjoining the WWTP were
      included within the Newberg UGB and designated for industrial uses. Tax lots 3228-
      1500 and 3229-200 were later zoned M-2 for light industrial use by the property owners.

2.2   Early in 1990 Yamhill County realigned and reconstructed Wynooski road to accommo-
      date heavy industrial traffic to the Smurfit pulp and paper mill, the Newberg Transfer
      and Recycling Center and other potential heavy industrial uses anticipated int he area.
      The improvements were partially financed with Federal Assistance Secondary (FAS)
      funds for roadway improvements. Wynooski Road is considered to be a primary heavy
      industrial access into the city, with the exception of the primary and secondary state
      arterials, state highways 99W and 219, serving the Newberg community. The area, and
      site have direct access to highway 219 and 99W. The highway network provides the site
      with access to the south,        east and west    in order to maximize       the ease of its transfer
      operations and the access for recycling.

2.3   The Newberg Comprehensive Plan deems properties in proximity to the Smurfit Mill as
      suitable for heavy industrial development which would also deem this type of use
      appropriate.

2.4   There is one residence with exceptions code area 1.10 that is directly affected or
      potentially impacted, namely tax lot 3228-1220, which is the property which Newberg
      Garbage wishes to expand onto. The house will not be adversely affected by the zone
      change,      and residents   indicated   on Tax   lot 3229-400,   500,    and    600   were   owned    by
      Smurfit and were razed over the past six years. Residents in the area have recognized
      that the emergence and growth of industrial activity in the vicinity is not conducive to
      rural or urban residential occupancies.     Private ownerships are being marketed as
      potential industrial property. The City of Newberg has included the land with its Urban
      Area      Reserve   (URA),   which means     it will be included in the UGB            sometime    in the
      future.

2.5   The Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) Solid Waste Management Program has
      favors the concept of waste reduction as a top statewide solid waste management priority.
      The activity proposed will enhance waste reduction through the recycling. The proposal
      is consistent with the Statewide Solid Waste Management Plan, which embraces the waste
      reduction policies in the Yamhill county solid waste Management Plan waste reduction
      policies. No areas exist within the existing UGB that allow this activity as an outright
      use. Because the franchise agreement is site specific, Newberg Transfer and Recycling
      Center, Inc. will request the county for an amendment to its franchise agreement.

                                                                                         Exhibit "A" - Page 8
                                                                                                Ordinance 609
                                                                     FILM   60      PACE   279

2.6    The current DEQ permit, issued to the year 2005, requires annual reporting to DEQ.
       This reporting will continue. The DEQ transfer site permit also requires that a location
       be provided for source separated recycling. The expanded depot which is proposed will
       continue to meet this requirement. DEQ also requires that a separate report be made to
       the county with regard to recyclable, and this will continue to be done.

2.7.   The Board finds that areas within the existing UGB that are designated for Industrial use
       have been evaluated and found to be inappropriate for the proposed use due to size
       limitation, industrial access limitations, proximity to residential or other incompatible
       land uses, existing industrial occupancy or regulatory limitations upon use.

2.8    The Board agrees with the applicants analysis of the long term economic, social,
       environmental and energy consequences that could result as stated at pages 28-31 of
       applicant’s supporting materials. (Ex 1.)

       Goal 10 (Housing), and the 1995 edition of Oregon’s Statewide Planning Goals and
       Guidelines lists Goal 10 as, "To provide for the housing needs of citizens of the state."
        The goal directs that buildable lands for residential use shall be inventoried and plans
       shall encourage the availability of adequate numbers of needed housing units at price
       ranges and rent levels which are commensurate with the financial capabilities of Oregon
       households and allow for flexibility of housing location, type and density. The definition
       of buildable lands refers to lands in urban and urbanizable areas that are suitable,
       available and necessary for residential use. Urbanizable land is defined as those lands
       within the urban growth boundary and satisfy certain guidelines. The Statewide Planning
       Goals and Guidelines do not mention the Urban Reserve Area. Since the property is not
       within Newberg’s Urban Growth Boundary, an exception to Goal 10 may not be needed.
       If it is required, the applicant has provided justification on pages 22 through 33 of the
       application, and based thereon, the Board finds that applicants have satisfied the
       requirements for obtaining an exception to Goal 10,

       Newberg Urban Reserve Rule - Criteria and Analysis

       The City of Newberg raised a concern as to whether this application should be sent for
       recommendation to the Newberg Urban Area Management Commission (NUAMC). As
       noted in Finding A.10, this property was included as part of the area designated in
       Newberg’s Urban Reserve Area. The interim agreement signed by Yamhill County and
       the City of Newberg states, "Any development within the URA requires review by the
       City of Newberg in accordance with the policies in this plan and a joint agreement
       adopted by the City of Newberg and Yamhill County called the Newberg Urban Area
       Growth Management Agreement." The agreement outlines the processing of Comprehen-
       sive Plan amendments and Zone change applications.       Outside of Newberg’s UGB but
       within their "Area of Influence" amendments shall be processed by Yamhill County and
       shall be referred to the City of Newberg for a recommendation.

       Melvin Lucas, from The Department of Land Conservation and Development submitted
       a letter regarding this issue dated March 19, 1996. In the letter he states, "Although
       Yamhili County and Newberg have not mutually adopted an (final) agreement to

                                                                                 Exhibit "A" - Page 9
                                                                                        Ordinance 609
                                                                     FILH   60   PACE   230

     implement the program for the established Urban Reserve Area, the intent of OAR 660-
     21-040(3) states that once the Urban Reserve Area has been mutually adopted there are
     to be no rezonings within the area that allow more intensive uses." The agreement that
     Mr. Lucas is talking about is the final agreement to be mutually adopted by the city and
     county. The final agreement will outline how the city and county will coordinate their
     planning efforts in the Urban Reserve Area (URA). This final agreement is required to
     have language that complies with the administrative rule that Mr. Lucas has cited.
     However, since that final agreement has not been adopted, the interim agreement is what
     is used to guide decisions in the URA. As discussed above, the interim agreement states
     land use decisions outside of Newberg’s UGB shall be processed by the county and
     referred to the city for a recommendation.

     However, as stated in C.5 above, the City has withdrawn its objection to this application,
     based upon a settlement agreement with the applicant under which applicant will
     complete certain improvements, and therefore, the URA area issue has been resolved.

     Limited Use Overlay District

     Section 904.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance allows the placement of a
     limited use overlay to be placed on plan amendments. Section 904.03 states:

            When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
            underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance
            adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.

     Since the request and evaluation of this application deals with the expansion of a transfer
     station, other uses allowed by the PWS Public Works/Safety District may not be
     appropriate. Therefore as part of this approval a limited use overlay will be required to
     limit the use of the property to a transfer station.   Any other use allowed by the PWS
     zone will require amendment to the overlay zone and taking of an exception pursuant to
     OAR 660-04.

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

1.   The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Very Low Density Residential
     to Public Facility and a zone change from VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential to
     PWS Public Works/Safety District.

     The subject parcel is adjacent to the existing transfer station which the applicant wishes
     to expand.

     The request is appropriate with the goals and policies of the Yamhill County Comprehen-
     sive Plan.

     The request is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208 of the Yamhill
     County Zoning Ordinance.

                                                                            Exhibit "A" - Page 10
                                                                                   Ordinance 609
                                                                     rium 60 me 234
5.     With an approved Site Design Review, the request can be made compatible with existing
       urban and rural uses, including but not limited to an additional condition that the site
       design review include adequate screening in order to buffer the site from residential
       areas.

6.     Since the request and evaluation of this application deals with the expansion of a transfer
       station, other uses allowed by the PWS Public Works/Safety District may not be
       appropriate, and therefore as part of this approval a limited use overlay will be required
       to limit the use of the property to a transfer station. Any other use allowed by the PWS
       zone will require amendment to the overlay zone and taking of an exception pursuant to
       OAR 660-04.

DECISION:

       Based on the findings and conclusions, the request by Newberg Garbage Service for a
       Comprehensive Plan amendment from Very Low Density Residential to Public Facility
       and a zone change from VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential to PWS Public
       Works/Safety District on tax lot 3228-1200 is hereby approved, subject to a limited use
       overlay zone limiting the use of the property to a transfer station, subject to the following
       conditions:

1.     Prior to any development of the property, the applicant shall receive site design approval,
       including adequate screening to buffer the site from residential areas, pursuant to Section
       1101 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

F:\PA\PAZ-7-95 .-2

H:\adman\pinkstj\lu\96.136

                                                                               Exhibit "A" - Page 11
                                                                                       Ordinance 609