Zoning Ordinance
Section 1004.00 - Home Occupations
[Last amended 09/02/04, Ord. 746]
Section 202.00  of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance lists the following definition of Home
Occupation:

HOME OCCUPATION:  An activity involving off-site sales, the manufacture of a product or
the provision of a service carried on in compliance with Section 1004 of this ordinance by a
resident of the property on which the business in located. "Home occupation" does not include
the retail sale of products unless such sales are seconday to the primary home occupation use.

1004.01 Standards and Limitations
Except as provided in the Minor Home Occupation standards listed in Subsection
1004.01, the following standards and limitations shall apply to home occupations:

A.  The home occupation will be operated by a resident of the property on which the
business is located.
B.  The home occupation will employ on the site no more than five full or part-time
employees. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]
C.  The home occupation will be operated substantially in the dwelling or in other
buildings normally associated with uses permitted in the zone in which the
property is located. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]
D.  The home occupation will not unreasonably interfere with existing uses on nearby
land or with other uses permitted in the zone in which the property is located.
[Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]
E.  No more than one (1) home occupation shall be permitted in conjunction with any
dwelling or parcel. Activities which are substantially different in nature shall be
considered separate home occupations.
F.  A home occupation shall not be used to permit construction of any structure that
would not otherwise be allowed in the zone in which the home occupation is
established, nor shall a home occupation be used as justification for a zone
change.
G.  The total area used for outdoor storage shall not exceed the allowable parcel
coverage in the zone in which the home occupation is established.
H.  There shall be no visible evidence of the conduct of a home occupation from any
road or adjacent property, other than permitted signs. Any outdoor storage or
outdoor work areas shall be effectively screened by vegetation or by a sight
obscuring fence.

I.  A home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor,
electrical interference or other disturbance beyond what normally occurs in the
applicable zoning district.

J.  A home occupation shall not generate traffic or parking beyond what normally
occurs in the applicable zoning district.
K.  Off-street parking spaces shall be provided for clients or patrons and shall not be
located in any required yard. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]
L.  One (1) on-premise sign shall be permitted in conjunction with a home
occupation, subject to the sign provisions set forth in Section
1006 .
M.  The nature of a proposed home occupation shall be specified at the time of
application. Any proposed change in the nature of an approved home occupation
shall require a new conditional use permit. Any departure from the uses and
activities initially specified shall be considered grounds for revocation of the
conditional use permit.
N.  A permit for a home occupation shall be deemed personal to the applicant and
shall not run with the land. Upon notification by the county such permit shall
expire two (2) years from the date of issuance, at which time the permit may be
renewed by the Director upon a finding that the requirements of this ordinance are
being met. A fee for renewal of the permit may be imposed by the Director.
O.  A condition of approval may be placed on a home occupation requiring a review
every 12 months following the date the permit was issued. The home occupation
may be renewed if it continues to comply with the requirements of this ordinance
and any other conditions of approval. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]
P.  Pursuant to the nonconforming use provisions of Section 1205  of this ordinance,
any proposed expansion or change in the nature of a home occupation in
operation prior to adoption of this ordinance shall be subject to the requirements
of this section and shall require a conditional use permit. In the event of denial of
such an application, the home occupation shall be allowed to continue at its
original scale and nature as a nonconforming use.

1004.02 Minor Home Occupations
Minor Home Occupations may be established within an existing dwelling provided it
satisifies the following standards

A.  Minor Home Occupation shall be conducted within a dwelling and shall be clearly
incidental to the use of the structure as a dwelling.
B.  There shall be no visible evidence of the conduct of a Minor Home Occupation
from any road or adjacent property, other than permitted signs.
C.  There shall be no outside storage associated with a Minor Home Occupation.
D.  A maximum of two full or part time employees, in addition to members of the
immediate family residing on the premises, shall be employed in the operation of
the Minor Home Occupation.
E.  There shall be no display of products visible from outside an enclosed building
space.
F.  The maximum number of client vehicles that are associated with a home
occupation and located on the subject property shall not exceed two at any time.
G.  A maximum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for clients or
patrons and shall not be located in any required yard.
H.  A Minor Home Occupation shall not create noise, vibration, glare, fumes or odor
detectable to normal sensory perception off the subject property.
I.  A Minor Home Occupation shall not create visual or audible electrical
interference in any radio or television off the subject property or cause fluctuation
in line voltage off the subject property.
J.  A Minor Home Occupation does not allow the repair of motor vehicles.
K.  A bed and breakfast does not qualify as a Minor Home Occupation.
L.  A Minor Home Occupation is limited to one on-premise sign of up to six square
feet.
[1004.02 Added 9/2/04, Ord. 746]

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page