This section and related information is available at www.co.yamhill.or.us/plan/planning/ordinance/zoning_toc.asp

               SECTION 1300 - APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES

1301.     SUMMARY OF APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES,                                  _ [Last Amended 5/24/12; Ord. 872]

1301.01           Type A, B and C Procedures

          The review of applications received under the provisions of this ordinance shall be conducted
          according to one or more of the three procedures described below:

          A.     Type A Procedure

                 The following procedure shall be used when county ordinance requires Type A review of an
                  application:

                  I,      Prior to or at the time of filing an application, the applicant or the applicant's authorized
                          representative shall meet with the Director or an authorized representative of the
                          Department of Planning and Development in a pre-application conference to review
                          requirements and concerns about the applicant's request;

                          The applicant shall submit an application to the Department on a form prescribed by
                          the Director;

                          Upon receipt of a complete application the Director shall review the application and
                          shall make a decision based on an evaluation of the proposal and on the applicable
                          criteria in this ordinance.   The Director may, at his/her discretion, forward the
                          application to the Planning Commission and have the request processed under the
                          Type C review procedures.                           [Amended 1/14/99; Ord. 668; 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

                          The applicant and the surrounding property owners who are entitled to notice pursuant
                          to state law shail be notified in writing of the Director's decision and of the reasons for
                          the decision. Others who may have an interest in the decision shail be notified by
                          publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county,
                                                                                                [Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

                          All decisions of the Director may be appealed to the Board if such an appeal is filed
                          within 15 days from the date of the decision, pursuant to Section 1404 for appeals.

                 Type B Procedure.
          ig

                 The following procedure shall be used when county ordinance requires Type B review of an
                 application:

                  i.      Prior to or at the time of filing an application, the applicant or the applicant's authorized
                          representative shail meet with the Director or an authorized representative of the
                          Department of Planning and Development in a pre-application conference to review
                          requirements and concerns about the applicant's request;

                                 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance         Page 1301-1
            The applicant shall submit an application to the Department on a form prescribed by
            the Director;

            Owners of land adjoining the subject property and others as required under the Type
            A provisions, the Board, and the Commission, shall be notified of the application.
            Others who may have an interest in the application shall be notified by publication in a
            newspaper of general circulation in the county. The Director shall have the right to
            provide written notice to such other persons as deemed appropriate. Those notified
            shall be given 15 days from the date of notification to either submit a written request
            for public hearing, or bring to the attention of the Director objections to approval or
            any adverse consequences or incompatibilities that may result from approval. A
            request for a hearing shall be in writing, shall state the basis for requesting the hearing
            and shall be accompanied by payment of a fee to cover the cost of the hearing. No
            fee shall be required if the hearing is requested by the Board, Commission, appropriate
            planning advisory committee, or the Director.
                                                                                {Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720]
            If no timely written request for a public hearing is received by the Director, the
            Director shall either approve or deny the application. The Director may attach
            additional conditions to an approval based on comments received during the 15 day
            period following public notice. The Director shall make a decision based on an
            evaluation of the proposal within 150 days of receipt of a complete application, or such
            longer period mutually agreed to by the Director and the applicant. The applicant and
            those who commented during the 15 day period following public notice shall be notified
            in writing of the Director's decision and the reasons for the decision. A decision of
            the Director made pursuant to this subsection may be appealed to the Board by filing
            pursuant to Section 1404 of this ordinance no later than 15 days from the date of the
            decision.                                         [Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720; 5/24/12; Ord. 872]

            If the Director receives a timely written request for public hearing, as specified in this
            section, the Director shall schedule a public hearing before the Commission or
            hearings officer, according to the Type C procedure described in subsection
            1301.01(C) and in accordance with the public notice requirements of Section 1402.

     Type C Procedure - Public Hearing Before the Commission or Hearings Officer,
IP

     The following procedure shall be used when county ordinance requires Type C review of an
     application.

     i,     Prior to or at the time of filing an application, a pre-application conference shall be
            conducted in which the applicant or the applicant's authorized representative shall
            meet with the Director or an authorized member of the department to review
            requirements and concerns about the applicant's request.

            The applicant shall submit an application to the Department of Planning and
            Development on a form prescribed by the Director;

            Upon receipt of a complete application, a public hearing shall be scheduled and public
            notice mailed and published according to the public notice requirements contained in
            Section 1402;

                  Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance          Page 1301-2
                    4,      At the public hearing the county staff, the applicant, and other interested parties may
                            present information relevant to the proposal, and may give reasons why the application
                            should or should not be approved;                                    {Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

                    5.      For applications that do not involve plan amendments, within 150 days of receipt of a
                            completed application, or such longer period mutually agreed to by both the Director
                            and the applicant, the application shall be approved or denied based on an evaluation
                            of the proposal and applicable criteria as set forth in this ordinance;
                                                                                              [Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

                    6.      The applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision and of the reasons for the
                            decision; and

                    7.      All decisions of the Commission or hearings officer may be appealed to the Board, if
                            the appeal is filed within 15 days from the date of the decision, pursuant to Section
                            1404 for appeals.

1301.62             Effective Date of Decision.

          The effective date of decision is the date of recording of the final order or, if the decision is such that
          no order is to be filed, the effective date of decision is the date of the letter notifying the applicant of
          the decision.

1301.03             Reapplication.

          If an application is denied, no new application for the same or substantially similar action shall be filed
          for at least one year from the effective date of decision.

1301.04             Review by the Commission.

          The Commission may, on its own motion, initiate review of any decision of the Director made pursuant
          to the review procedures of subsection 1301.01 if within 15 days of the decision, a request is received
          from one or more members of the Commission for review of the decision and at the next regularly
          scheduled meeting of the Commission a motion is passed to review the decision. Review by the
          Commission shall be subject to Section 1404 for appeals.

1301.05             Review by the Board.

          The Board may, on its own motion, order review of any decision made pursuant to the review
          procedures of subsection 1301.01 if such a motion is made within 15 days of the decision, subject to
          Section [403 for Board review.

1301.06             Effective Date of Application.

          Approval of any land use application, as provided for in the review procedures of subsection 1301.01,
          shall not be effective, and no development permits shall be issued, until the appeal period has elapsed.

F:\Share\ZO\1301_ 872.wpd

                                  Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance          Page 1301-3