BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                              FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                  SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Amending the Amity Urban Growth Boundary           +)
(UGB) to take in approximately 24 acres into the Amity UGB,         )     Ordinance 864
Applicant the city of Amity, Planning Docket PA-01-09,              )
and Declaring an Emergency                                          )

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on March 31, 2011, Commissioners Mary P. Stern, Leslie
Lewis and Kathy George being present.

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the city of Amity submitted an application to
amend the Urban Growth Boundary to take in approximately 24 acres into the Amity UGB, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard at a duly noticed Amity
Urban Area Management Commission public hearing on December 13, 2010, and the Amity city
council approved it on January 5, 2011. The Board of Commissioners head this matter at a duly
noticed public hearing on March 10, 2011, and voted to approve it. NOW, THEREFORE,

          IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in Exhibit "A," the Findings for Approval, hereby incorporated into this Ordinance by this
reference. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective immediately. A map
is appended as Exhibit "B".

          DONE this 31st day of March, 2011, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                               YAMMILL op             B           OF COMMISSIONERS

                                        |
                                      Chir                          MARY P. STERN

                                        Lan f Yo’
                                         |
                                      Cémmissioner”                  LESLIE LEWIS

APPROVED AS TO FORM:                         Reh ( J atgee
                                      Commissione                    KATHY GEORGE

Rick Sanai, County Counsel

                                                                                 OR OIWANCE 8o¥
                                                                                 B.6, IITA
                                           Exhibit” A
DOCKET NO:              —PA-01-09
REQUEST:              To amend the Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) to take in approximately 24
acres into the Amity UGB. Approval of the request would allow eventual inclusion of the property
into the city limits.

APPLICANT:              City of Amity

TAX LOT:                See map attached as Exhibit "B"

LOCATION:              The majority of the area is north of the Amity city limits with a small area
on the eastern boundary.

CRITERIA:               Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies, Amity Urban
Area Management Agreement, Statewide Planning Goals, Oregon Revised Statute 197.298 and the
Oregon Administrative Rules, including OAR 660-012 and 660-024.

FINDINGS:

A,      Background Facts:

1.      Site Characteristics: A detailed analysis of the areas for inclusion are found on pages 29-32
of the application narrative dated September 23, 2010 and are incorporated here by reference. The
24 acres proposed for inclusion in the Amity urban growth boundary (UGB) will be referred to as
the “subject sites.”

2.       Water and sewer: City of Amity.

3.      Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: The areas in the County surrounding the subject sites
proposed for inclusion into the UGB are zoned EF, Exclusive Farm use and AF-20,
Agriculture/Forestry. These areas are a mixture of farm and forest uses.

4.      Fire Protection: Amity Rural Fire District.

5.      Soils: See “Appendix E” titled Soils Capability Classes within Evaluated Areas included in
the application, incorporated herein by this reference.

6.      Flood Hazard Overlay: Approximately 6.33 acres of the area west of the railroad tracks
and north of 1* Street (Tax Lots 5420CA-801, 1100 and 1200) is in the Flood Hazard Overlay,
FIRM 41071C0602D. See “Appendix F” of the application. The Department of Land Conservation
and Development has recommended not including this area in the UGB due to the steep slopes,
riparian corridors, floodplain and floodway.

7.      Coordinated Population Projection: ORS 195.036 requires the County to establish and
maintain a population forecast for use in maintaining and updating comprehensive plans, and to
coordinate the forecast with each of the cities in the County. Statewide Planning Goal 14 requires
a 20-year population forecast for UGB amendments. Both the city and the County are proposing to
                                                                                           poy nye
                                                                                      ORD WANE          FO
                                                                                     BOM SIR
 Amity UGB Amendment - Ordinance 864
 Page 3

  adopt the safe harbor population forecast to the year 2030 for the city of Amity concurrent with the
  adoption of the UGB amendment. The application states the population forecast for the city of
  Amity in 2030 will be 2,481. The population projection is discussed further in Section 2.0 of the
  application. The city of Amity would like to adopt 2,481 as the coordinated population projection
. for 2030 as part of this application and the County has no objections to adopting this number.

  8.       Procedure: The original application, which was to add 44 acres, has since been modified after
  the city met with 1000 Friends of Oregon. This meeting resulted in the city amending their application
  to remove a 20 acre portion south of Rice Lane, which is zoned EF-80 and is prime farmland. The
  application was reviewed and recommended for approval at the December 13, 2010 Amity Urban Area
  Management Commission hearing and then the city council approved it on January 5, 2011.

  B.      Urban Area Growth Management Agreement Provisions

  1.    Criteria addressed in this UGB amendment includes the Amity Urban Area Growth
  Management Agreement, the statewide planning goals, and the city and County Comprehensive
  Plans. These review standards are detailed in Section 5.2 of the application submitted by the city.
  Consideration of the Yamhill County Goals and Policies will be discussed further below. Even
  though the majority of the Yamhill County Goals and Policies are aspirational and are not to be
  mistaken for, or treated as, approval criteria, it is important that they be considered. It is a fact that
  some of the goals and policies conflict with one another. They are simply to be used as a guide to
  aid decision makers. For example, where goals or policies conflict the decision makers need to
  weigh the evidence and decide which goal or policy the request satisfies. Therefore, in each case,
  the AUAMC decided whether the subject site and exclusion site were more appropriate to be
  preserved as farm land or it is better suited for orderly urban development. The following goals
  and policies are part of this determination.

 2.       The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section I.A., Goal 1, directs the County:

           To encourage the containment of growth within existing urban centers,
                  provide for the orderly, staged, diversified and compatible
                  development of all of the cities of Yamhill County, and assure an
                  efficient transition from rural to urban land use.

  and, Section II, Goal 1, states:

           To conserve Yamhill County’s farm land for the production of crops and
                 livestock and to ensure that the conversion of farm land to urban
                 use where necessary and appropriate occurs in an orderly and
                  economical manner.

  To assure there is an efficient transition from rural to urban land uses the Board finds there has
  been a demonstration of the need for additional urban land, and a determination of the most
  suitable location for land of that identified need. Based on the city’s currently available housing
     and the projected population forecast, the city determined the need for future residential land to
     be included in the city’s UGB. The city identifies an estimated 52 gross acres of residential land
     and public infrastructure to meet the housing needs of the community by the year 2030. With 28
     acres available within the UGB the city has a need to expand the UGB by 24 gross acres. After
     identifying the need, the next step is to evaluate the best locations/alternatives for locating the
     use. The first alternative is to look inside the existing UGB. If land is not available, the next
     step is to look at land outside of the UGB and to go through the priority list of lands available for
     expansion.

      The majority of the property that will be taken into the UGB has historically been in farm use.
            The report submitted by the applicant shows two other alternative locations that were
            considered for expansion of the UGB but were excluded. The alternatives had attributes
            that made them not as suitable for inclusion in the UGB. The first site, which is located
             south of Ash Swale and is currently in a rural residential zone, was excluded due to the
             inability of the city, for economic purposes, to efficiently serve this area with public
             facilities during the 20-year planning period. A report is included from the city engineer
             shows that this area is not serviceable and would require extensive upgrades of over one-
            million dollars to the city’s infrastructure. This site does exhibit soils that are considered
            high-value, however, these parcels are within an exception area and are not protected by
             Goal 3 and would be considered a priority for inclusion into the UGB, however, due to
            the economic factors related to including this area, it is not practicable. The second site,
            which is currently zoned EF-80, was excluded because of “the severe building limitations
            identified on the majority of the parcels” combined with the fact that the soil on the
            properties are Class II and Ill. The application goes through this analysis in further detail.

     Based on substantial evidence in the record, the Board finds that the UGB amendment is
            necessary and the subject sites are the best location compared with the other alternatives.
            Based on the evidence in the record, the request would be an efficient transition from
            rural to urban use.

3.   The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section II, Goal 2, Policy a. states:

              Yamhill County will continue to preserve those areas for farm use which exhibit Class I
                     through IV soils as identified in the Capability Classification System of the U.S.
                     Soil Conservation Service.

     As noted above, the Board finds that the addition of the subject sites will provide the best
            opportunity for orderly development of property by providing needed area for urban
            expansion adjacent to the city, where services are available or can be readily extended and
            avoiding, to the maximum extent possible, those properties zoned for farm and/or forest
           use which exhibit Class I through IV soils. Based on the findings provided in the
           application, it appears the city made every effort to ensure minimal loss of higher class
            soils.
      Amity UGB - Ordinance 864
      Page 5
4,     The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section LE, Goal 1, Housing directs the County:

               To assure the provisions of safe, sanitary and decent housing for all residents of the
                      county at a reasonable cost.

        The Board finds this UGB expansion will provide additional housing opportunities for citizens
              of the community and encourage establishment of housing within an urban area, thereby,
              minimizing the impact on property designated as resource land.

CONCLUSIONS:

 1.    The request is to amend the Amity Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) to add approximately 24
       acres of land for residential use.

 2.    The applicant has demonstrated that the request satisfies the Yamhill County Comprehensive
       Plan goals and policies.

DECISION:
The Board finds that the city of Amity's proposed UGB amendment is consistent with the comprehensive
      plan. Based on the evidence in the record, the Board approves the request, and finds it will be an
      efficient transition from rural to urban use.

                                                                                                        .   “Ae

                                                                                               CORDIPBNCE PO¥
                                                                                              B.0.)-7/7%
                            LET                “Y 006 = “UT                                     ‘woperandiaiusy   ASI ‘SuOISEINEO ‘S204 deus 103 ajqisuodas you sf AyunoD
                                                                                                                   2 feIUOMIUDAO8 spr Oddns 0; HuNoo oy} Aq pourerurEUD
        HOz/Z/e            WW,                                      '                             sre sin?                                    sn paanpoud seas di
       shea Jo Wi2h3
smoury anydesBouep
                s10jxog,
      sseghe Siaquian                ;                  nen             wees
       speoy oqng          es                    eet                      oe   juolsuedxg gon
      speoyorand           7 SO                   ces         008
     sheauSiy aris         rave                ST
      speoy Ayunos,
         sproy Ano                                                                      nee                                                     wees
          syieg Guna                                                                      008
         Alp-Aauy          ccemne|
                                                                                                                                                        4
        sonoury — EOD                    Pca
           gon Ap                                             ro                                aN
        wy HORE