Vol 98                               ey
                                                     398                                   WON         §   Po   a9

         BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                           OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                 FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Zone Change from Heavy Industrial   )
to Light Industrial for a 1.9 Acre Parcel, Tax Lot 3403-1800,      )            Ordinance 808
Docket no. Z-02-07, Applicant Gene Belt, & Declaring an Emergency)

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the “Board”) sat
for the transaction of county business on May 23, 2007, Commissioners Kathy George, Mary P. Stern, and
Leslie Lewis being present.

          If APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Gener Belt applied to the Yamhill County Department
of Planning (Planning Docket Z-02-07) for a Zone change from HI, Heavy Industrial to LI, Light Industrial,
and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard by the Yamhill County Planning
Commission at a duly noticed public hearing on May 3, 2007, after which the Commission voted 8-0 to
recommend approving the application, and no-one has appealed that approval. NOW, THEREFORE,

         IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as detailed in the
Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated herein. This ordinance,
being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency
having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

          DONE this 23" day of May, 2007, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                                   YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                 acd,          Lhe
                                         Chair                       OXATHY GEORGE

     ‘    SEE                            Comhissione       |          MARY P. STERN

APPROVED AS TO FORM:                             i              hv     Vos
         We        On:                   Commissioner           ~~    LESLIE LEWIS

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                       B.0 -0F- 44lO
                                                                                     Ordinance   808   (Belt)
                                                            Vol 98
                                                            399
Findings, Docket Z-02-07 (Belt)
Page 2

DOCKET NO.:                       Z-02-07

REQUEST:                          Zone change from HI, Heavy Industrial to LI, Light Industrial.

APPLICANT:                        Gene Belt

TAX LOT:                          3403-1800

LOCATION:                         Approximately 1,200 feet southeast of the intersection of Stillers
                                  Mill Road and Highway 240, Yamhill

CRITERIA:                         Sections 702, 703 and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                                  Ordinance; Section 904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied; the
                                  Yamhill   County    Comprehensive    Plan   Goals   and Policies;   OAR
                                  660-012-0060 Transportation Planning Rule.

A.       Background Facts:

         Property size: Approximately 1.9 acres.

         Access:   Highway 240.

         On-site Land Use:        The property fronts onto the Union Pacific Railroad, which runs
         perpendicular to Highway 240.        This rail line has been abandoned and the tracks have been
         removed for some time now. The property contains a large storage building that was used in
         the past to store grain and a warehouse that is being rented for equipment storage.

         Surrounding Land Use and Zoning:        The area is generally zoned EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use
         and contains larger parcels in farm use. One parcel to the north is zoned RI, Resource
         Industrial and is a fruit processing plant. The rest of the railroad right-of-way will remain HI
         and is currently being used as an auto wrecking yard, The Yamhill River borders the subject
         parcel to the south.

         Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows the entire parcel is composed of Woodburn
         (WuB and WuC), Class I prime farmland.

         Water: The applicant has indicated the parcel is served by city water.

         Sewage Disposal: None.

         Fire Protection: Yamhill Fire District.
         Taxes: Market value.

                                                                                      3.0.0 F446
                                                                                Ordinance    808   (Belt)
                                                        Vol 98
                                                        400
Findings, Docket Z-02-07 (Belt)
Page 3
10.    Previous Actions: On March 9, 2007 a temporary storage permit was approved to allow a
       manufactured home to be stored on the parcel for six months.

11.    Request: The applicant applied for the zone change in order to construct ten 10 x 30 storage
       units for RV, camp trailers, boats and trucks.

B.    Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

1.     The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and criteria in YCZO
       Section 1208.02.   These provisions are:

       (A)    The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other applicable
              provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       (B)    There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
              requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
              economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the
              availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
              allowed by the zone.

       (C)    The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
              density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred
              in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and
              services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

       (D)     Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
               unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other
              factors.

       (E)     The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
               exceptions, if applicable.

       Regarding criterion (A) above, Comprehensive Plan goals and policies which maybe pertinent
       are:
      Industrial Development Goal Statement .H.1; To concentrate industries of similar types,
      service needs, and performance characteristics within designated areas of each of the existing
       urban centers; to encourage adequate land for new industrial development within urban
      growth boundaries; to encourage the relocation of existing industries from undesirable
      locations in order to eliminate land use conflicts, to attract new industries in accordance with
       the need to achieve a more balanced local property tax and employment base, while
       maintaining a high standard of environmental quality; and to protect the stability and
      functional aspect of industrial areas by protecting them from incompatible uses
      Policy L.H.1.b: To the greatest extent possible, industrial areas will be located within urban
       growth boundaries. Those industrial areas located outside urban growth boundaries will be
       compatible with the industrial development goal and will be located where they can be
       adequately served by necessary major utility lines, including electric power substations and

                                                                               Ordinance   808   (Belt)
                                                       Vol 98
                                                       401
Findings, Docket Z-02-07 (Belt)
Page 4
         transmission lines, trunk sewer lines, trunk water lines, and where appropriate, trunk gas
         lines.

         The above goal and policy encourages the location of industrial uses within existing urban
         areas and urban growth boundaries. Traditionally, Yamhill County has encouraged applicants
         to look to industrial property inside the boundary prior to making application for rezoning
         property outside of the Urban Growth Boundary.         The property is approximately 1,000 feet
         east of the city limits of Yamhill. The applicant indicated he is not aware of any other land
         designated as LI, Light Industrial in the immediate area.        The subject property is already
         developed with buildings and city water which could be utilized for the proposed use without
         the costly extension of urban services. Approving the zone change would take advantage of
         the fact that the site is already developed.

         In addition, the existing grain storage building is not being used for what it was designed for
         and the railroad has been abandoned. It is unlikely to be utilized in the near future for Heavy
         Industrial uses. Part of the above goal is to attract new industries to achieve a broader, more
         stable tax base while maintaining a high standard of environmental quality. Changing the zone
         will still allow the property to be used for industrial uses. Being a developed site, it has already
         had its environmental impact, albeit a small one, on the site. The proposed use would not
         increase the environmental impact from what already exists at the site.

         Policy 17.1.6 states in part that industrial uses - .. . will be located where they can be
         adequately served by necessary major utility lines, including electric power substations and
         transmission lines, trunk sewer lines, trunk water lines, and where appropriate, trunk gas
         lines. The purpose of this policy is to assure that industrial users which are expected to utilize
         large amounts of water or electricity will be located within close proximity to places were
         those utilities are located. In this case the proposed use is not anticipated to require major
         utility lines, or major sewer or water lines. The need is only anticipated to be basic power and
         water services. At this point, no sewer services are needed.

         Regarding the need for the proposed use, criterion (B), the applicant stated that there are new
         homes being constructed in the Yamhill area and the occupants of these new homes may need
         RV, trailer, etc. storage. The application involves approximately 1.9 acres which is already
         zoned and developed for certain heavy industrial uses. Those heavy industrial uses no longer
         appear to be economically feasible. What the applicant is proposing is to allow the reuse of
         industrial land at a time when these uses are growing in need. The availability and suitability
         of other LI zoned lands will be discussed in Finding B.6.

         Regarding criterion (C), as noted above in Finding A.4, the surrounding area is mainly large
         blocks of land zoned EF, Exclusive Farm with one parcel to the north zoned RI, Resource
         Industrial and is currently a fruit processing plant. Across Highway 240, the rest of the railroad
         right-of-way will remain HI and is currently being used as an auto wrecking yard. Although
         the industrial uses are different, they are both plan designated Industrial and share many
         similarities in the scale and scope of allowed uses. It appears this zone change is appropriate
         considering the surrounding land uses. The level of use is not expected to need any extension

                                                                                  Ordinance    808   (Belt)
                                                     Vol 9g
                                                     402
Findings, Docket Z-02-07 (Belt)
Page 5
        of services. The water is provided by the city and electrical power is already provided to the
        site.

        Regarding criteria (D),    there is a very limited amount of land zoned LI in the county.
        Surrounding the City of Yamhill and nearby Carlton there are no properties that are zoned LI
        or properties zoned that allow the uses provided for in the LI zone.    The request appears to
        comply with criterion (D).

7,      Regarding criterion (E), no exception is required.

C.   _ Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis

The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must be addressed. OAR
660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

        ()     Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
               regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that
               allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of
               service of the facility.

        The property is already zoned for Heavy Industrial use. The property is served by Highway
        240. Going from a Heavy Industrial to a Light Industrial zone would not change or amend the
        functional plan because the Comprehensive Plan designation of the property remains
        Industrial. Therefore, it appears that the proposed use is consistent with the identified
        function, capacity, and level of service of the local roads. The proposal will be subject to
        ODOT permitting process.

E.     Limited Use Overlay Provisions

1.     The Section 904.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance states that The limited use
       overlay may be applied by the Board of Commissioners or the Planning Commission to Plan
       Amendments and/or zone changes.

        Section 904.03 of the YCZO contains provisions for limited use overlays. It states:

        (A)     When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the underlying
               zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance adopting the
               Limited Use Overlay District.

        (B)    The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require conditional use approval for
               uses normally permitted outright.

        (C)    Reasonable conditions may be imposed in the Limited Use Overlay District as are
               necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and
               this ordinance.

                                                                               Ordinance   808   (Belt)
                                                             Vol 98
                                                             403
Findings, Docket Z-02-07 (Belt)
Page 6
        (D) — Until the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses in an LU
               district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.

           Since the LI Light Industrial use zone allows other industrial uses which have not been
           evaluated to determine whether they are appropriate to the area, it is appropriate to apply a
           Limited Use Overlay to limit uses on the rezoned area to a RV storage operation and
           accessory uses, In addition, because the request is surrounded by farm land, the applicant
           shall be required to:

                          A.   Sign and record the statements in 402.08 (F) of the Yamhill County Zoning
                               Ordinance.

                          B.   Construct appropriate traffic mitigation measures per recommendation from
                               ODOT and the Public Works Department.

                          C.   Construct a 6ft. tall sight-obscuring fence or hedge to obscure views of the
                               interior of the site from neighboring properties.

                          D.   Submit a site design review application for the proposed use.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.         The request is for approval of a zone change from HI, Heavy Industrial to LI Light Industrial
           in order to construct storage units for RV’s, camp trailers, boats and trucks.

           The request complies with the Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies.

           Approval of the request would allow use of land that is already built and committed to an
           industrial use.

           The requested zone change is appropriate for the area considering the level of services needed
           and available, and considering surrounding development.

           The request will comply with the Transportation Planning Rule if all permits from Oregon
           Department of Transportation are obtained. As noted above, approval of the request would
           restrict the use of the property to light industrial uses, which does not involve movement of
           heavy machinery and large commercial truck traffic. Therefore, the proposed uses are not as
           traffic intensive as heavy industrial uses. The proposal will be subject to ODOT permitting
           process,

DECISION:

The request by Gene Belt for a zone change from HI, Heavy Industrial to LI, Light Industrial on
Tax Lot 3403-1800, with a limited use overlay zone which limits the use to a storage yard for RV’s,
camp trailers, boats, trucks and similar items, is hereby approved.

FALU\BeltZ-02-07 sr.wpd

                                                                                       B.0-07F 446
                                                                                   Ordinance   808   (Belt)