Voi 95
                                                                                                 100

                                                                           or FEB 12 P1<40
               BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                   FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                         SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Modifying the “Interchange Overlay District” by

                                                                               ee
Amending Ordinance 747 to Allow Property Within Urban Reserve
Area C to Be Considered for Inclusion in the Newberg Urban Growth                   Ordinance 802
Boundary, Docket G-02-06, Tax Lots 3216-900, -1000, and -1100

                                                                               ee
Applicant Yamhill County, and Declaring an Emergency

              THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the “Board”) sat
for the transaction of county business on February 7, 2007, Commissioners Kathy George, and Leslie Lewis
being present, and Mary P. Stern being excused.

              IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Yamhill County Department of Planning (Planning
Docket G-02-06) requested to modify the “Interchange Overlay District”, adopted by Ordinance 747, to
allow property within Urban Reserve Area C to be considered for inclusion in the Newberg Urban Growth
Boundary, and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard by the Yamhill County Planning
Commission at a duly noticed public hearing on December 7, 2006, after which the Commission voted to
recommend approving the application. A public hearing was held before the Board on January 24, 2007.
NOW, THEREFORE,

          IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved and Ordinance
747 is hereby amended to read as follows:

908.06             Limitations    on   Zone   Changes     within    the    Interchange     Overlay
                   District

         A.        To achieve the purpose of the Interchange Overlay District,
                   Yamhill  County  will not  approve zone changes during the
                   interim period before Interchange Area Management Plans are
                   prepared and adopted except for those areas brought into the
                   Newberg Urban Growth Boundary pursuant to 908.07(D).

908.07             UGB   Amendments    within    the    Interchange       Overlay   District

         D.        In cooperation with the Cities of Dayton, Dundee and Newberg,
                   Yamhill County will not approve expansion of UGBs within the
                   Interchange   Overlay   District   in the  interim  period before
                   interchange   area management plans are adopted for the four
                   interchanges to the Bypass.      An exception to this limitation
                   will be allowed for expansion of the Newberg UGB into the
                   Urban Reserve Area C, north of Highway        99W, to accommodate
                   construction of Crestview Drive in the general location shown
                   on the City of Newberg acknowledged Transportation System Plan
                   and   a planned   frontage   road between Crestview Drive and
                   Benjamin Road.

                                                                                         Q.0-0F Je}
                                                                                                                 Vol 95
                                                                                                                 401

The reasons for this amendment are detailed in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by
this reference incorporated herein. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

             DONE this 7" day of February, 2007, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                                    YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN                                        Meck, Meer
County Clerk                                         ¥          lr"            KAGHY GEORGE

         |                                                   navallable for signature
B 1o                                                     u                          s
Deputy Anne Britt                                   joner                      MARY P. STERN

APPROVED AS TO FORM:                               M2                 2   Yv a
                                                . ve                      wv
   Mi,      Q       ;                     Commissioner                      LESLIE LEWIS

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                   Accepted by Yamhill Cou
                                                                                                           nty
                                                                                   Board of Commissioners
                                                                                                            on
                                                                                      £      8      by Board Order
                                                                                  #02 lel
                                                                                                        Vol 95
                                                                                                        102

Exhibit “A”, Findings

DOCKET NO.:             G-02-06

REQUEST:                To modify the “Interchange Overlay District”, adopted by Ordinance 747, to allow
                        property within Urban Reserve Area C to be considered for inclusion in the
                        Newberg Urban Growth Boundary. The specific language proposed is as follows:

                        908.06 Limitations on Zone Changes within the Interchange Overlay District

                        A.        To achieve the purpose     of the Interchange      Overlay   District, Yamhill
                                  County will not approve zone changes during the interim period before
                                  Interchange Area Management Plans are prepared and adopted except for
                                  those areas brought into the Newberg Urban Growth Boundary pursuant to
                                  908.07(D).

                        908.07 UGB Amendments within the Interchange Overlay District

                                  In cooperation with the Cities of Dayton, Dundee and Newberg, Yamhill
                                  County will not approve expansion of UGBs within the Interchange
                                  Overlay District in the interim period before interchange area management
                                  plans are adopted for the four interchanges to the Bypass. An exception to
                                  this limitation will be allowed for expansion of the Newberg UGB into the
                                  westerly-portion-of Urban Reserve Area C, north of Highway 99W, to
                                  accommodate construction of the Crestview Drive in the general location
                                  shown on the City of Newberg acknowledged Transportation System Plan
                                  and a planned frontage road between the Crestview Drive, and Benjamin
                                  Road.

APPLICANT:              Yamhill County (At the request of NewB Properties LLC)

LOCATION:               This ordinance change applies to Urban Reserved Area C, north of Highway 99W.

TAX LOTS:               3216-900, -1000 and -1100

CRITERIA:               ORS   197 and 215, OAR 660-06 and Section 1207.02 of the Yamhill County
                        Zoning Ordinance.

A.     Background

        Ordinance 747 adopted a new Interchange Overlay District. The intent of the district was to prevent
       development where development was not anticipated. This is summed up by the Comprehensive Plan
       Policy adopted by Ordinance 747.      Section IIA Policy b. states in part:

                Yamhill County will apply an Interchange Overlay District to unincorporated county lands
                that are within approximately 1/4 to 4 mile of the interchange ramps to protect agricultural
                and rural lands from development pressures. . .

                                                                                                B.0   OF-l6)
                                                                                                    Vol 95
                                                                                                    103

       Part of the restrictions within the Interchange Overlay District are a prohibition on urban growth
       boundary (UGB) expansions, Subsection 908.07(D) lists the specific restriction on UGB expansions:

               In cooperation with the Cities of Dayton, Dundee and Newberg, Yamhill County will not
               approve expansion of UGBs within the Interchange Overlay District in the interim period
               before interchange area management plans are adopted for the four interchanges to the
               Bypass. An exception to this limitation will be allowed for expansion of the Newberg UGB
               into the Urban Reserve Area C, to accommodate construction of the Northern Arterial in the
               general location shown on the City of Newberg acknowledged Transportation System Plan

       The Planning Director received a request by NewB properties to amend Ordinance 747 to allow
       certain properties within the Newberg Urban Reserve Area to be allowed to pursue an UGB
       amendment. The Planning Director agreed to put forward the request, if the applicant paid for its
       processing, for the following reasons:

                1.      Ordinance 747 was done at the behest of the Oregon Department of Transportation
                        (ODOT). ODOT does not appear to object to the amendment. ODOT had done
                        traffic modeling if the Urban Reserve Areas are developed and has worked this
                        potential development into their long term plans.

                        On June 5, 2006 the Newberg City Council approved Ordinance 2006-2648 which
                        amended the City’s Bypass Interchange Overlay policies to allow for this application.

                        In 1995, Yamhill County and the City of Newberg worked together to adopt the
                        Newberg Urban Reserve Area. This identified land that had the highest priority for
                        inclusion in the UGB. The application would affect an area that both the City and
                        County have identified as appropriate for eventual inclusion in Newberg’s UGB.

                        Approval of this text amendment does not approve the UGB amendment. It only
                        allows application to be made on the aforementioned tax lots.          For a UGB
                        amendment, the applicant would still need to demonstrate to the County and City that
                        the request is consistent with the approval criteria.

B.     Zoning Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.     Section 1207.02 of the YCZO contains the review criteria pertinent to the proposed zoning
       ordinance text amendments, stating:

       A legislative amendment shall satisfy all applicable requirements of this ordinance in addition to the
       following:

       A.      An amendment      to the text of this ordinance shall be based upon a need for such an
               amendment identified by the Board, the Commission, or the Director.

       B.       The amendment shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,           and with all other
               provisions of this ordinance, and with federal, state, or local government statutes, rules and
                regulations.

        The applicants have applied for the UGB Amendment on the three subject lots. The application
can not receive final approval until and unless this legislative amendment is approved.
                                                                                            Val 95
                                                                                            104

2.    Regarding criterion (A), the Planning Director has identified a need to amend the text of the YCZO
      to allow an applicant to pursue an application for an Urban Growth Boundary amendment.

3.    Regarding criterion (B), the property involved is part of the Newberg Urban Reserve Area. The
      Urban Reserve Area identified land that has the highest priority for inclusion in Newberg’s UGB.
      Allowing application for a UGB amendment for these properties, while still protecting the proposed
      bypass corridor, is consistent with the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan policies, state statutes
      and administrative rules.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.    The proposal is to amend the text of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance to allow three tax lots
      to be considered for inclusion in the Newberg Urban Growth Boundary.

2.    The proposed text language complies with the review criteria for a legislative amendment in Section
       1207.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

3.    The proposed amendment complies with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, state statutes and
      administrative rules.

FALU\NewbergOverlayG-02-06.wpd

                                                                                         3-0.09-lol