Zoning Ordinance
Section 1009.00 - Temporary Use Permits

1009.01  Standards and Requirements
The following minimum requirements shall apply to temporary use permits:
A.  A structure for which a temporary permit is issued shall be subject to the
standards and limitations of the zoning district in which it is located.

B.  The structure shall meet all applicable County Health and Sanitation
requirements.

C.  Temporary uses or activities shall comply with applicable State and Federal
regulations and requirements.
D.  In the event that the use or activity involves a temporary structure, such structure
shall be removed upon expiration of the temporary use permit unless a new
application is approved by the Director. In no case shall a temporary use permit
be issued for a period exceeding nine (9) months, unless the permit is renewed
pursuant to this ordinance; or is subject to Subsection
1009.03 .
1009.02  Conditions of Approval
In issuing a temporary use permit, the Director may impose reasonable conditions as
necessary to preserve the basic purpose and intent of the underlying zoning district. These
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
A.  Increasing the required yard dimensions.
B.  Requiring fencing, screening, or landscaping to protect adjacent or nearby
property.
C.  Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs.
D.  Limiting the time for certain activities.
E.  Limiting the total duration of the use.
F.  Posting bonds or other financial assurances to guarantee compliance with
conditions of approval.
1009.03  Termination or Non-Renewal
A.  If the applicant for a temporary activity or use fails to maintain compliance with
conditions of approval, or if the activity or use is determined, upon appeal of the
Director's decision, to be inconsistent with the provision of the applicable zoning
District, such use may, upon 15 days notice by the Director, be terminated. Such
an appeal may be made at any time during the duration of permit approval, and is
not subject to other time limitations.
B.  If the temporary use is determined to be incompatible with vicinity uses or
otherwise unsatisfactory, and such conditions cannot be mitigated, the temporary
activity or use may be denied renewal by the Director.
C.  If at any time the Director determines that a temporary use is more permanent
than temporary in nature, such use shall comply with all applicable provisions of
this ordinance. [Amended 8/17/88, Ord. 468]

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page