BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                   FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                    SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In The Matter Of Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment            )
from Agriculture/Forestry Smal] Holding to Commercial;                 )
a zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding            —)     Ordinance 805
to HC Highway Commercial, Tax Lot 3325-600, Docket                     )
PAZ-06-04, Applicant Willie Owens.                                     ,)

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the “Board”)
sat for the transaction of county business on March 21, 2007, Commissioners Kathy George, Leslie
Lewis, and Mary P. Stern being present.

           IT   APPEARING      TO    THE     BOARD    that Willie   Owens   requested   approval   of a
Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Commercial; a zone
change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to HC Highway Commercial.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard and approved 5 to 4 by the
Planning Commission at a duly noticed public hearing on November 3, 2005. A public hearing was
held before the Board on March 7, 2007. After hearing testimony from the applicant (these being no
opponents) the Board voted 2 to 1 (Commissioner Stern voting no) to approve the application.
NOW, THEREFORE,

             IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated
herein.

           DONE this 21* day of March, 2007, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                    YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN

By:(Ornne/               if                    E
Deputy Anne Britt             ee           G fp issioner    \          MARY    P. STERN

APPROVED AS TO FORM                 ; oa                   LM (4Vowse
   4 Va         2    ;         Tere        Confnissioner    ”          LESLIE LEWIS

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                    G0. 04-285
Exhibit “A” FINDINGS

DOCKET NO.:           PAZ-06-04

REQUEST:              Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Small
                      Holding to Commercial; a zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small
                      Holding to HC Highway Commercial. The purpose of the zone change is to
                      expand the existing three acre Highway Commercial Zone over the entire 14 acres
                      of the subject parcel,

APPLICANT:            Willie Owens

TAX LOT:              3325-600

LOCATION:             9660 NE Fox Farm Road, Newberg, Oregon

CRITERIA:             Sections 501, 904, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance. Section
                      904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied. Comprehensive Pian policies may
                      be applicable. OAR 660-12-0060 Transportation Planning Rule.

      Background Facts:
>

      Property size: 14.66 acres. The southern 3 acres of the property are already zoned HC Highway
      Commercial. The remaining acreage is the subject of this request. Unless specified otherwise,
      references to the “subject property” will be the approximately 11.66 acres presently zoned AF-10.

      Access: Fox Farm Road, a paved county road.

      On-site Land Use: The property contains a residence, garage, shed, barn, greenhouses and
      commercial barn. The commercial barn is one that is set up to advertise for barn kits that may be
      purchased. The land has been used in the past for nursery and bark dust sales. The property is in
      the immediate vicinity of Highway 99W. It is near the location for the planned interchange to
      serve the Newberg/Dundee bypass. The existing three acres zoned HC are covered by the
      boundary of the interchange. The southwest portion of the proposed zone change (approximately
      1.4 acres) is also covered by the area of the proposed interchange.

      Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: Highway 99W borders the property to the southeast. Across
      Highway 99W is property that is zoned VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential. Land to the
      south is zoned NC Neighborhood Commercial and contains a towing business. The parcel further
      to the southwest, across Highway 99W contains a gas station which is within the city limits of
      Dundee, Land to the north is zoned AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding and VLDR 2.5.
      Much of the AF-10 property is planted to vineyard. Across Fox Farm Road to the west are two
      acres zoned RI Resource Industrial and the remainder zoned VLDR-1. The RI zone contains a
      winery. The VLDR-] property is planted to a vineyard. Another winery exists to the northeast,
      also on an Ri zone. The property is within close proximity to the city of Dundee which contains
      commercial and residential uses. The commercial uses include restaurants.

      Water: City of Dundee.   (The application indicates there are two water meters.)

      Sewage Disposal: On-site septic system.

                                                                                          BO-0F-28D
       Fire Protection: Dundee Rural Fire District

       Soils: Sheet 21 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the parcel is composed of
       approximately 1/3 Amity (Am) and 2/3 Woodburn soils, (WuB and WuC) with an agricultural
       capability of Class II and Ii.

       Taxes: Tract land.

10.    Previous Actions: The property has a number of land use actions that resulted in the present
       zoning. They include PA-86-80/Z-185-80, Z-218-82/PA-112-82/PUD-16-82.                In 1987 Ordinance
       443 was adopted to take the entire 14.66 acres into Dundee’s Urban Growth Boundary (UGB).
       However, the City of Dundee decided not to accept the property into their UGB. The property also
       received conditional use approval and a variance in 1986 to store/sell barkdust. In 1998 the
       property was granted a conditional use approval to have a barn on the property to advertise for
       barn kits.

11.    Description of Proposal: There is no use specified in the request. The application states that,
       “Applicants desire to expand their business to allow for additional commercial use permitted in the
       Highway Commercial Zone, specifically set forth in the Permitted Uses Section 603.02.”

12.    Exception area: The subject property was part of code area 1.8 adopted on April 23, 1980 as part
       of Exceptions Statement I. The property was part of an area identified as land “committed” to
       tural residential use.

13,    Ordinance No. 747 was adopted by the Board of Commissioners on September 30, 2004.               This
       ordinance adopted an Interchange Overlay District that would restrict the application of zone
       changes for three years while an interchange plan was developed.         The applicant filed a
       placeholder application the week prior to the adoption of this overlay district. The application was
       made complete prior to 180-days from the time the request was filed so it is not subject to
       Ordinance No, 747 or Section 908 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

       Permitted Use Provisions and Analysis
cg

       The applicant states that the, “Applicants desire to expand their business to allow for additional
       commercial use permitted in the Highway Commercial Zone, specifically set forth in the Permitted
       Uses Section 603.02."         The permitted uses in the HC zone are as follows:

603.02 Permitted Uses.
                 In the HC     District, the following uses shall be permitted subject to the standards and
                 limitations set forth in subsection 603.07 and pursuant to Section 1101 for site design
                 review:

                             Automobile service station,
               QAAmoOO>

                             Drive-in restaurant, restaurant, or refreshment stand;
                             Food store, maximum floor area of two thousand (2,000) square feet;
                             Fruit or vegetable stand, commercial;
                             Gift, souvenir or antique shop,
                             Motel;
                             Dwelling in conjunction with a permitted use. Site design review is not required
                             for the dwelling;
                ACCESSONY USES;

       Be
                Temporary structures as may be required during construction of an authorized
                permanent structure. Such temporary structure shall be removed upon final
                inspection of the permanent structure by the Building Inspector;
       SAS      Community or municipal water supply system;
                Community or municipal sewer system; and
                 Signs, pursuant to the sign provisions set forth in Section 1006,

The HC Highway Commercial zone also has a provision to add other uses to the permitted use
section. This is done by following the procedures for a similar use and establishing that the
requested use is similar to one that is already permitted within the zone. In addition to the
permitted uses, RV Sales have been approved in this zone as a similar use. Since the request is not
for any single use, any of the above uses need to be considered to be potentially sited on the
subject property. In addition, the Planning Commission and Board of Commissioners considered
the fact that approval of this request would result in 14.66 acres of property zoned HC Highway
Commercial. The HC zone has the following minimum lot size:

        Minimum Parcel Size, The minimum parcel size shall be 20,000 square feet for any use,
        except the minimum parcel size for a motel shall be one (1) acre and the minimum parcel
        size for a planned unit development shall be two (2) acres.

Therefore, there is a distinct possibility that the resulting 11.66 acres could be divided into smaller
parcels and have a number of uses established on those smaller parcels.

Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards and
criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02.    These provisions are:

(4)     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other applicable
        provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

(B)     There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the requested
        zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area,
        the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location
        of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

()      The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the density
        and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred in the
        vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services
        likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

(D)     Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either unavailable
        or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other factors.

(       The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for exceptions,
        if applicable.

Regarding criterion (A) above, since an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3 and 4 has already
been taken for the subject parcel, Comprehensive Plan goals and policies related to agricultural
and forest lands are not applicable. The application makes general statements about how the
intended use satisfies the goal and policies of the comprehensive plan. The main focus of the
argument appears to be that this will be a mixed use insofar as the residence will remain on the
property in conjunction with the commercial use. There are more specific Comprehensive Plan
goals and policies which should be considered.

Policy .B.1.d.: No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially influence the
extension of costly services and facilities normally associated with urban centers, such as
municipal water supply and sanitary sewerage or power, gas and telephone services, nor shall it
 impose inordinate additional net costs on mobile, centralized public services, such as police and
fire protection, school busing or refuse collection.

The application stated, and the Board finds, that the use will not require the extension of costly
additional services.

Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy IF.1.b. Yamhill County will encourage
economic development projects which do not conflict with the predominant timber and
agricultural character of the county.

Although the subject property and neighboring land is not specifically zoned for agricultural uses,
there are agricultural uses that exist on adjacent land. To the north and west are parcels that are
planted to vineyard. (It should be noted that the property to the west has an application for a 39-lot
subdivision to create parcels of approximately two acres.) The application stresses how much
commercial use already exists in the surrounding area. The “commercial use” mentioned by the
applicant includes the two nearby wineries in the RI Resource Industrial zones. It should be noted
that Yamhill County does not consider the uses allowed in the RI zone to be the same or similar to
uses allowed in the County’s commercial zones. The RI zone is intended to allow the processing
and sale of food products grown in the local agricultural area. The uses in the RI zone would be
within the agricultural character of the County and should not be used to justify the rezoning of
nearby lands for commercial use.

Goal LG.1. To create an environment for commercial development which will preserve and
enhance the vitality of the central business districts, assure safer, more convenient and attractive
community and neighborhood commercial centers, and protect prime commercial sites for use in
advance of need.

Most of the uses listed in the HC zone are ones that can be found in the downtown central business
district. The applicant stated, and the Board finds, that there is substantial evidence in the whole
record that there is an insufficient number of suitable HC zoned properties which are available to
satisfy the current demand.

Policy L.G.1.b. The county will discourage the expansion of strip commercial and provide for the
redevelopment of strip commercial areas.

Due to its close proximity to Highway 99W and the location of other commercial uses, the Board
does not consider this location strip development.

Policy LG.1.d.   Yamhill County will adopt landscape and design criteria for all forms of
commercial development occurring outside of urban growth boundaries.
At the time of development, the landscaping requirements will be applied to this property.

Regarding the availability of other lands already zoned for the proposed use, criterion 1208.02(B)
and (D), the applicant’s representative stated that she surveyed the Commercial zone in a two mile
radius. The study submitted listed 12 properties, along with reasons as to why none of these
properties would satisfy the need for a nursery. The application demonstrates, and the Board
finds, the need related to nursery products satisfies this crinterion.

Regarding criterion (C), the surrounding lands include commercial and rural residential uses. The
commercial uses in the County include motorcycle parts sales, barkdust/nursery business and a
towing yard. Nearby resource industrial uses include two wineries. With appropriate
landscaping/screening of the use, the request should not be in conflict with the neighboring
commercial/industrial uses. The surrounding rural residential uses have a greater chance of
conflicting with the proposed use. Notice was mailed to the surrounding property owners. There
have been no objections from the neighboring property owners.

Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis

The request needs an exception to Goal 14. The applicant has chosen to pursue a “reasons
exception.” Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-04 contains the requirements for taking a
“reasons” exception to Goal 14 for the property going from AF-10 to HC.

OAR 660-04-020 contains four factors that must be addressed when taking an exception to a goal.
They are:

(a)     Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals should not apply.

(b)     Areas which do not require a new exception cannot reasonably accommodate the use.

(c}     The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences resulting from
        the use at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce adverse impacts are not
        significantly more adverse than would typically result from the same proposal being
        located in other areas requiring a Goal exception.

(d)     The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or will be so rendered through
        measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.

Regarding factor (a), the applicant adequately addressed the Goal 14 factors. This is typically
done when property is considered for inclusion in an Urban Growth Boundary (UGB).          This
property was considered for inclusion in the UGB for Dundee in 1987. At the time there was little
in the way of intensive farm use going on in the surrounding area. Since then there have been two
vineyards established on adjacent properties and two wineries established.

OAR 660-04-022 states that the reasons justifying why the state policy embodied in the goal
should not apply include, but are not limited to, that there is a demonstrated need for the proposed
use, and either: 1) a resource upon which the use is dependent can be reasonably obtained only at
the exception site and the use must be located near the resource; or 2) the use has special features
or qualities that necessitate its location on or near the proposed exception site. The Board finds
this has been adequately addressed.
     Factor (b), is addressed in Finding B.3. One of the questions listed in OAR-660-004-
     0020(2)(b)(B) is whether the proposed use could reasonably be accommodated in other areas that
     do not require an exception. This has been adequately addressed by the applicant.

     Regarding factor (c), the environmental, economic, social and energy (ESEE) analysis needs to be
     done regarding this request. In response to this standard the application states, “The subject
     property meets this standard by actually creating a significantly less adverse impact than other
     areas that may require a Goal 14 exception due to the fact that it is already commercial in
     character. The use is consistent with the environmental, economic, social, and energy
     consequences that the surrounding parcels (exhibit) and by rezoning this parcel to Highway
     Commercial makes its impact less than other areas.” This has been adequately addressed by the
     applicant.

     Regarding factor (d) the proposed uses need to be compatible with other adjacent uses or be so
     rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts. The Board finds that the proposed
     use(s) will be in character with the other commercial uses in the area.

     At the bottom of page 6 of the request the applicant’s representative goes on to present argument
     that the subject property is already physically developed and irrevocable committed to other uses
     to the point that it is no longer available for “. . . agricultural or forestry use.” The Board agrees
     with this statement, and finds the property qualifies for an exception to Goal 14.

     Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis
iP

     Because of the proximity of the proposed HC Highway Commercial zone to Highway 99W, the
     provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must be addressed. OAR
     660-12-060 contains these provisions:

     ()      Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
              regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that allowed
              land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of service of the
             facility. This shall be accomplished by either:
              (a)      Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function, capacity
                       and level of service of the transportation facility;
             (b)       Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                      facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                       requirements of this division; or,
             (¢)      Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                      demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

     (2)     A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation facility if
             it:
             (@)      Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned transportation
                     facility;
             (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
             (oe)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or access
                     which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a transportation
                     facility; or
             (@d)     Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum acceptable
                      level identified in the TSP.
2.      Regarding (2), the applicant has submitted a transportation report form Tom R. Lancaster P.E.,
        P.T.O.E. and Geoffrey A. Judd, E.L.T. of Lancaster Engineering (hereby incorporated into these
        findings by this reference) demonstrating compliance with the Transportation Planning Rule and
        Section 1208.02(C) of the YCZO.

CONCLUSIONS:

lL      The request is for approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture Forestry
        Small Holding (AFSH) to Commercial (C) and a zone change from AF-10 Agriculture Forestry
        Small Holding to HC Highway Commercial.

2.      The request satisfies Section 1208.02(A) because it would allow development consistent with
        Policy 1.G.1.b.

3.      The request satisfies Section 1208.02(B) because the applicant has provided adequate justification
        to show that there is an existing demonstrable need for uses allowed in the HC Highway
        Commercial zone.

4,      The request satisfies Section 1208.02(D) because it has been demonstrated that other areas already
        zoned for the proposed use are unavailable or not as well suited for the proposed use.

5.      The request has been shown to satisfy the Transportation Planning Rule.

6.      The applicant has demonstrated compliance with Goal 14.

APPROVAL:

Willie Owens’ request for approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Small
Holding to Commercial and a zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to HC
Highway Commercial is hereby APPROVED, wit the following conditions:

The property is subject to a limited use overlay restricting allowed uses to a nursery and accessory uses.

The applicant shall perform any and all traffic infrastructure improvements required by the Oregon
Department of Transportation.

FALU\OwensWilleBOFinds.wpd

                                                                                        G.0-04F- 220