FILA   TA ae L854
                                                 Ol JUN 29 P3559
           IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                            OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                              FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Reversing the Planning

                                                      eye evenvwv
Commission’s Denial of a Zone Change and
Comprehensive Plan Amendment from AF-10

                                                    wee
Agriculture/Forestry to VLDR 2% Very Low
Density Residential, Applicants Finis Carter,                           ORDINANCE 702
Thomas W. Edwards and the Bruce Fowler and
Beverly Fowler Living Trust, Docket Z-02-00;
Tax Lots 3324-7902, 7903, 7904 and 7905.

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS              OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for
the transaction of county business in formal session on June 28, 2001, Commissioners Thomas
E.E. Bunn, Leslie Lewis and Robert Johnstone being present.

THE BOARD MAKES THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:

A. The applicants - Finis Carter, Thomas W. Edwards and the Bruce Fowler and Beverly Fowler
Living Trust - requested a zone change from AF-10 to VLDR 2% on Tax Lots 3324-7902, 7903,
7904 and 7905. The Planning Commission denied this request after a hearing on March 1, 2001.

B. A public hearing was held by the Board of Commissioners on May 23, 2001. After hearing
from the applicants and opponents, the Board duly deliberated and voted 3-0 to overturn the
Planning Commission’s denial for the reasons set forth in Exhibit “A”, attached and hereby
incorporated into this Ordinance by reference. NOW, THEREFORE:

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD that the Planning Commission’s denial of
application Z-02-00 is reversed for the reasons stated in the Finding for Approval and attached
and incorporated into this Ordinance as Exhibit “A”. The zoning on Tax Lots 3324-7902, 7903,
7904 and 7905 is hereby changed from AF-10 to VLDR 2.

DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 28"      day of June, 2001.

ATTEST                                YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                       ar
CHARLES STERN                             [how                       £.€. |
County Clerk                          Chairman                         THOMAS E. E. BUNN

                                                                                        ol 0.   mas
                                                     (Mote
                                                        WC ocd
                                                  Commissioner
                                                        “ LESLIE LEWIS
                                                                            FILM   Th   eer   LGD

                                                       (Ancaae
RICK SANAI                    :                   Commissioner   Gi   JOHNSTONE
Assistant County Counsel

   F;\ADMINSANANLU\CaterEdwardsFowlerOrdinance.wpd

FAADMIN\SANANLU\CaterEdwardsFowlerOrdinance.wpd
                                                                         FILK    74    nee LOSS

                                       Exhibit “A”
                      FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL, ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00

A. Background Facts

          1. Lot size: A combined total of approximately 24.87 acres

        2. Access: The property has three access points, with two developed off of Highway
99W. The third access point is Hyland Drive. The road right-of-way for Hyland Drive is 60 feet
in width and abuts the western boundary of the subject parcel. The end of Hyland Drive nearest
the subject parcel is undeveloped and gated. Permission for the gate was granted by the Board of
Commissioners to the Otter Creek Hyland Drive Road District by Board Order 00-796. The
permission for placing this gate was granted with the condition that "...the permission granted by
the Board is revocable at any future time." The Otter Creek Hyland Drive Road District has also
made a request to the Board of Commissioners asking to vacate the last five feet of Hyland Drive
nearest the subject property.

          3. On-site Land Use:   The property is an odd shape, best described as a triangle with two
ends trimmed off. Near the middle of the property is a 2.13 acre parcel, not part of this request,
that is zoned for Heavy Industrial use. The subject property contains three existing dwellings.
These dwellings are shown on the Assessors' map as Tax Lots 3324-7902, 7903 and 7904. These
tax lots are for property identification only and are not recognized as separate parcels. The
topography of the property is relatively level with a slight slope to the north. The parcel is
generally clear. There are some oak trees along the property lines and scattered through out the
parcel.

         4. Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: With notable exceptions, most of the surrounding
area is rural residential in character. Most of the rural residential uses are located on parcels of
one to 10 acres in size. Property to the north, northwest and southeast is zoned VLDR 2.5 (Very
Low Density Residential). Property adjacent to the northeast is zoned VLDR-1. A little further
to the northeast is property that is zone Light Industrial. Land to the southwest is a mixture of
VLDR-5 and AF/10 Agricultural/Forestry Small Holding.          Further to the southwest is an area
zoned RI (Resource Industrial) which has the Duck Pond Cellars winery,          As noted above, near
the middle of the property is ‘a 2.13 acre parcel, not part of this request, that is zoned for Heavy
Industrial use. This parcel had been used as a wrecking yard. Within the last five years, the
wrecking yard was closed and replaced by two other uses, These uses are RV storage and a body
building gymnasium shop. This Heavy Industrial zone does not have a limited use overlay which
limits it to these uses; so, the property could revert back at any time to a more intensive Heavy
Industrial use.

          5. Water:   On-site wells appear to be the only option.

PAGE 1-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00

                                                                                        B.0 4% DI- WV
                                                                           aux 4 xc L007
       6. Sewage Disposal:     Septic systems are the only option in this area.

        7. Soils: Sheet 22 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey indicates the majority of the
property is a mixture of Woodburn (WuB) and.Amity (Am) soils. Both of which are rated Class
I for agricultural purposes.

Previous Actions: Docket P-1243-81 allowed dividing off Tax Lot 3324-7900 in 1981. The 2.13
acres that is zoned HI was divided in 1984 by Docket P-1336-83. A request to change the plan
designation and zoning on the subject property to allow for LI (Light Industrial) use was denied
in 1985 under Docket PAZ-126-83.      An application was made under Docket P-24-98 to divide the
property in half but was later withdrawn.

Exception: The property was found to be a committed exception in Code Area 1.8, adopted by
Exception's Statement I, April 23, 1980 and was plan designated VLDR Very Low Density
Residential.

 Zone Change Provisions and Analysis

  1. Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards and
criteria in YCZO 1208.02. These provisions are:

        A. The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies and any other applicable
provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

        B. There is an existing, demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the
area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location
of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

         C. The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred in the
vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services likely to
be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

        D. Other lands in the County already designated for the proposed uses are either
unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size or other factors.

        E, The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules        (OAR‘s)
for exceptions, if applicable.

 2. Regarding criterion (A) above,

PAGE 2-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                           FIL    ra    wee L038

        A. Azone change to VLDR 2 1/2 is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan designation
of Very Low Density Residential (VLDR). A property plan designated VLDR complies with the
Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies for rural residential use.

                1). The applicants have satisfied Comprehensive Plan Goal I.B.2 which states:

                Yamhill County will continue to recognize that the
                appropriate location of very low density residential
                development is in designated large areas where
                conunitments to such uses have already been made through
                existing subdivision, partitioning, or development
                and by virtue of close proximity to existing urban
                centers ...

                        a. The subject property complies with the aforesaid goal, because it is part
of a large exception area 1.8 zoned for residential use located between Newberg and Dundee,
The County has previously concluded that a property plan designated VLDR complies with the
Comprehensive Plan Goals. Furthermore, the subject property satisfies Goal 1.B.2
in that it is part of the large exception, as the area is committed to residential use as there are
certain subdivisions already resident in the area.

                2). Since the subject property is zoned Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding 10, it
has already had an exception taken to'Statewide Planning Goal 3, and thus an exception to Goal
3 is not required for approval.

                3). Since an exception to the Statewide planning goals 3 and 4 has already been
taken associated with the subject property, exceptions to Goals 3 and 4 are not required for
approval.

                4). The applicants have satisfied Comprehensive Plan Policy 1.B.1.d which states:

                No proposed rural development shall require or
                substantially influence the extension of costly
                services and facilities normally associated with
                urban centers, such as municipal water, supply
                and sanitary sewerage or power ...

                       a. The subject property complies with the aforesaid policy in that the
application has demonstrated that the subject property can provide sufficient water, septic, and
storm water drainage to accommodate a total of nine (9) residences on the subject property
(which is the maximum number of residences that can be sited on the subject property) without
imposing any additional net costs on mobile or other centralized public services [this satisfaction

 PAGE 3-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                              FILK   74   nop LO09

by the application is set out in more detail regarding Criterion (C) set forth below].

               5). The applicants have satisfied the summary in Section HI A of the
               Comprehensive Plan which states:

               A major concern of the County is to develop a
               transportation system that will maintain and enhance
               the quality of life enjoyed by its residents.

                          a. The subject property complies with the aforesaid policy in that the
application has demonstrated that with the existing access (es) on OR State Hwy 99W and the
available access via Hyland Drive (which is a platted 60' County right of way), that the subject
property will maintain the County transportation system and enhance the quality of life enjoyed
by its residents.

 3. Regarding criteria (B) and (D) above,

        A. Regarding the demonstrable need for VLDR 2 1/2 zoned property, the growth in
Yamhill County over the past then (10) years has led to a tremendous market demand for VLDR
2 1/2 zoned properties.

                1). The applicants have shown that there is a demonstrable need for VLDR 2 1/2
zoned property in the subject area, in that the applicants have shown:

                a). Based on the testimony of Newberg realtor Marc Willcuts (both written and
oral; Mr. Willcuts’ written evidence is attached to this Exhibit and hereby incorporated into these
Findings by this reference), the applicants have shown:

             1)). There are a tremendous number of prospective purchasers of VLDR 2 1/2 zoned
property, with the majority of those prospective purchasers being residents of Yamhill County.
The applicants have shown why VLDR 1 or 5 zoned parcels will not fit the needs of these
prospective purchasers, and that there is an existing market demand for VLDR 2 1/2 zoned
properties.

                 2)). A large supply of available VLDR 2 1/2 zoned properties within the said
exception area is necessary to maintain a healthy economy in the County, and 13 available
parcels as set forth below in Section B is not nearly enough of a supply of VLDR 2 1/2 zoned
parcels within the exception area to maintain a healthy economy and provide for the needs of the
citizenry of the area.

         B. Regarding the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability
for the uses allowed by the zone,

PAGE 4-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                             FILK   4    ee    ABAD

             1). "Available” as defined in this Ordinance means those properties that have no
improvements on them and whose physical characteristics would allow building a residence on
them.

                2). Yamhill County Assessor's maps show a total of 59 vacant VLDR 2 1/2 zoned
parcels within the said exception area, which is approximately 12 sq. miles in size, with "vacant"
connoting those properties that have no improvements on them as those properties would
tentatively be considered as “available” properties within the meaning of the said Ordinance.

                        a). The applicant physically surveyed the aforesaid 59 "tentatively
available" parcels within the exception area 1.8, and after completing the said physical survey,
the applicant found that there were only a total of 23 VLDR 2 1/2 zoned vacant land parcels
within the exception area, with those 23 properties then tentatively being considered as
"available" properties; i.e. the 59 available properties as set forth on the assessor's map was
overstated and incorrect.

                1)). The applicants have shown that of the 23 "tentatively available" properties
within the exception area, that a total of only thirteen (13) of those properties are to be
considered as available within the meaning of the Ordinance, with the "available" properties set
forth on attached Exhibit "A" (as only one of those available properties currently for sale) and the
"ynavailable" properties set forth on attached Exhibit "B", with the specific reasons why each of
the "unavailable" properties is considered as unavailable set forth on attached Exhibit "B".

                      a)). Based upon the specific reasons set forth on Exhibit "B", the applicants
have shown why each of the properties set forth on Exhibit "B" is either unavailable or not as
well-suited for the anticipated VLDR 2 1/2 zoned uses due to location, size or other factors.

                2)). The applicants have further shown that only 13 available VLDR 2 1/2 zoned
properties out of hundreds of properties in the said exception area is not nearly a large enough
number of properties to provide for the needs of the citizenry of the area and a healthy economy.

              C. Regarding other lands in the County already designated for the proposed uses, the
applicants:

            1). Have shown that out of the hundreds of properties within the said exception area,
there are only 13 VLDR 2 1/2 zoned properties which are currently available.

        2).    Have shown that based on the reasons set forth on Exhibit "B" why the ten (10)
"tentatively available" VLDR 2 1/2 zoned properties within the exception area are not as
well-suited to the anticipated use of VLDR 2 1/2 zoning due to location or other factors and thus
should be considered as unavailable properties.

PAGE 5-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                            FILA    7   no   LOA

 4. Regarding criterion (C) above,

         A. Regarding showing that the change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
uses and the density and patter of development in the area and any changes which may have
occutred in the area, the applicants have satisfied this condition in that the applicants have shown
that (based on the testimony of planner Bill Campbell; Mr. Campbell’s written evidence, “HI-
Zoned Property - 3324-7906" is attached and incorporated into these Findings by this reference):

      1). The subject property already contains three (3) residences, and the zone change is an
extension of an existing usage of the subject property.

       2). The subject property adjoins lands already zoned VLDR and other rural residential
lands, as the predominant nature of adjoining properties is rural residential, as the subject
property will be a nice fit with the area. Specifically, property to the north, northwest and
southeast is zoned VLDR 2.5 (Very Low Density Residential). Property adjacent to the northeast
is zoned VLDR-1. A little further to the northeast is property that is zone Light Industrial. Land
to the southwest is a mixture of VLDR-5 and AF/10 Agricultural/Forestry Small Holding.

       3). The subject property is not prime agricultural or forest property because of its soil type,
size, and topography, as the best usage for the subject property is rural residential.

      4), The heavy industrial zoned property of approximately 2.13 acres that is resident in the
middle of the subject property does not contain heavy industrial uses but rather uses that are
really commercial in nature; i.e., a health and gymnasium club, an RV storage facility, and a
masonry office, as the existing uses are compatible bordering rural residential property.

         a). Furthermore, the characteristics and limitations of the heavy industrial zoned
property are such that there is little likelihood that most permitted uses associated with heavy
industrial zoned property can ever be implemented on the heavy industrial zoned property for the
following reasons:

             1)). There is inadequate access for heavy truck traffic necessary for heavy industrial
                    uses.

             2)). The said property is too close a proximity to rural residential development.

             3)). There is no rail line to service the heavy industrial property.

             4)).   The existence of wetlands and other constraints on site.

      5). Based on the testimony of realtor Marc Willcuts, other rural residential developments
have been constructed near the same type of usages that are presently in existence on the said

PAGE 6-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                                FILK   7A    vee    B42

 heavy industrial zoned property.

          6). Based on the testimony of Bill Campbell, adequate screening, buffering, and berming
 via elevation changes can effectively screen the heavy industrial property from the subject
 property.

 B. Regarding utilities and services, the Board of Commissioners has previously interpreted the
 general question of availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses
 in the proposed district to mean that these uses are accessible or obtainable. The Board has not
 previously interpreted that each and every service is already developed to the site, nor could this
 be a reasonable interpretation. An example of this is the availability of on-site sewage disposal
 systems (septic systems). If the Board interpreted that the availability of utilities meant that
 sewage disposal needed to be provided by an installed system then a developer would be placed
 in an impossible “Catch-22." The developer could not receive approval for the zone change
 without the on-site sewage disposal systems being installed and yet they could not receive land
 use approvals to install these on-site systems without having a zone change approved. Therefore,
 the Board has previously interpreted that availability of utilities and services likely to be needed
 by the anticipated uses in the proposed district to mean that the applicant demonstrate these uses
 are accessible or obtainable.

                 1). The Board specifically interprets the definition of “availability” as set forth in
 said zoning ordinance regarding access, water, septic and storm water to be the following:

                        a. As to access, “available” means the applicant is required to show that
 the subject property can be accessed via an existing public road(s) that is platted and recorded as
 a public right-of-way open to usage by members of the public. The opponents’ attorney
 representing the Otter Creek Hylands Road District asserted that, “available” access means that
 the applicant is required to show that there is an existing public road that is already constructed
 pursuant to County standards that is already accessing the subject property.      This is contrary to
 the Board’s previous interpretations regarding availability.

The applicant is proposing to use Hyland Drive as the access for up to six additional residences,
This has caused considerable concern on the part of the Otter Creek Hylands Road District who
have a road association to maintain a portion of this road. In 2000, the Road District requested that
the Board grant approval for them to place a gate at the eastern end of Hyland Drive. The Board
granted this approval with the condition that it could be revoked at any time. The Road District
has also applied to the Board to have them approve the vacation of the most easterly five feet of
Hyland Drive. A January 22, 2001 memorandum from Dan Linscheid outlined why he did not
believe that this road vacation would be found to be in the public interest. Although the above
actions appear to have been made to prevent the use of Hyland Drive it is clear that this access is
“available” for the proposed use. Hyland Drive is a 60-foot wide dedicated public road. The
dedicated road abuts the western boundary of the subject parcel and, by virtue of this platting, was

  PAGE 7-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                           FILA   71.   ag   LDA

intended to be used as a future access for this parcel. Although this road right-of-way is available,
this is not to say that there are no concerns with the use of this road. A memo from the Public
Works Director received January 24, 2001 noted concerns with the road. The Public Works
Director stated that, “Prior to allowing additional development to be served by this road, significant
widening and strengthening should be required.” These concerns were noted in the staff report and
were discussed at the public hearing. Improvements to the road, like other aspects of the proposed
development, would be required to occur at the time of subdivision approval, not during the
consideration of a zone change.

Lastly, it should be noted that the actions of the Otter Creek Hylands Road District show that they
agree with this interpretation. In the months prior to the land use approval they aggressively
pursued trying to make the road unavailable by placing a gate at its eastern end and then by filing
with the Board of Commissioners to have the last five feet of the road right-of-way vacated. Why
pursue these actions if the road is already unavailable?

Further Analysis

            1)). Based on the testimony of transportation engineer Tom Lancaster (both written
and oral; Mr. Lancaster’s written evidence is attached to this Exhibit and hereby incorporated into
these Findings by this reference), the applicant has shown that:

                a). There are two (2) existing accesses from OR State Hwy 99W to the subject
property and that Hyland Dr is a public platted right of way that is available to access the west end
of the subject property, and thus, there are available accesses to access the subject property.

               b). There will be a maximum of three (3) residences which will access the subject
property via OR State Hwy 99W and a maximum of six (6) residences which will access the
subject property via Hyland Dr.

                   1))). Since there are already three (3) residences accessing the subject property
via OR State Hwy 99W, there will be no net increase in traffic on State Hwy 99W as a result of the
said zone change, and thus no adverse impact on either Hwy 99W or the surrounding properties.

                    2))). The zone change will generate 58 additional trips per day on Hyland Dr,
with six (6) additional trips generated during the peak hour (approximately 1 each 10 minutes).
The capacity of Hyland Dr is approximately 200 to 400 cars per hour; the actual number of trips
generated by the existing residences using Hyland Dr is much less than the said capacity. Thus, the
generation of six (6) additional trips per hour by the subject property will not have any adverse
impact on either Hyland Dr or the surrounding properties.

           b. As to water, "available" means the applicant is required to show that there the subject
property can provide sufficient water for the maximum number of residences without adversely
affecting the surrounding properties.

  PAGE 8-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                           FILE   rat   ner 1544

            1)). Based upon the testimony of EnviroLogic Resources hydrogeologist Tom
Calabrese (both written and oral; Mr.Calabrese’s written evidence is attached to this Exhibit and
hereby incorporated into these Findings by this reference), the applicant has shown that:

                 a). Water for a maximum of nine (9) residences will be supplied by on site wells.

                 b). Tom Calabrese performed a scientific analysis associated with ground water
availability using a study area which includes the area of all properties which intersect a Jine that is
1/4 mile area from the subject property boundaries, with this scientific analysis associated with
ground water usage and recharge rates, with the study using a Marion County ordinance associated
with the determination of the ground water availability associated with land development, with this
said calculation analysis being a scientifically accepted analysis associated with determination of
ground water availability associated with development. Tom Calabrese calculated a total amount
of recharge used by the subject property for a total of nine (9) residences to be 81%. Any recharge
rate calculated to be less than 90% means that the said property can provide sufficient water
without adversely affecting the surrounding properties.

                     1))). The said Marion County ordinance is relevant, appropriate, and
scientifically accepted for ground water availability determination for this application because:    (1)
The subject property conditions are similar to those of certain properties in Marion County, and (2)
The said Marion County ordinance was developed and promulgated after several years of study and
is a very restrictive ordinance from a development standpoint associated with ground water
availability calculations.

                c). Tom Calabrese also examined well logs from the State of OR Water Resources
Department for all wells in the study area to determine if certain of the said wells had been
deepened to further analyze the ground water availability of the subject property, with this
examination also scientifically accepted as an additional method utilized to analyze ground water
availability for development purposes, and determined the following:

                   1))). Less than 10% of the wells in the area examined have been deepened
which according to the said Marion County Ordinance indicates that there the said examination
area has not experienced any declining water levels.

                 d). Based upon the results of Tom Calabrese's scientific analysis and examination
of the wells in the examination area, the subject property can provide water for nine (9) residences
without adversely affecting the surrounding properties.

          c. As to storm water, "available" means the applicant is required to show that there the
subject property can manage storm water runoff for the maximum number of residences without
adversely affecting the surrounding properties.

  PAGE 9-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                                  ue Be    AE    &
                                                                           aus     CL mcr 45
            1)). Based upon the testimony of hydrogeologist Tom Calabrese,

                a). The total amount of new impervious square footage regarding nine (9)
residences and a new access road on the property which would be added by the development totals
less than 2% of the entite subject property area, which is a very small amount of impervious area
associated with the total subject property area.

                b). The topography of the subject property area does not contain any severe slopes
or elevation changes which would make storm water management difficult.

                c). On site storm water associated with a total of nine (9) residences can be
successfully managed on the subject property without adversely affecting surrounding properties.

          d. As to septic, "available" means the applicant is required to show that there the subject
property can accommodate on site septic disposal for the maximum number of residences without
adversely affecting the surrounding properties.                      :

             1)). Based on the testimony of sanitary engineer Martin Boatwright (both written and
oral; Mr. Boatwright’s written evidence is attached to this Exhibit and hereby incorporated into
these Findings by this reference),), the applicant has shown that:

                a). Septic disposal will be accommodated on site.

                 b). Martin Boatwright performed an on site inspection of the subject property and
inspected the applicable soil maps associated with the subject property, the topography of the
subject property, as well as the applicable ground cover and current uses of the subject property.

                 c). The subject property contains Woodburn soils at the north end and the south
end of the subject property, as Woodburn soils are good drainage soils and are suitable for on site
septic disposal.

                d). The topography of the subject property area does not contain any severe slopes
or elevation changes which would make on site septic disposal difficult.

                e). Based upon the existence of Woodburn soil on the property as well as certain
technological advances in design of septic systems (such as sand filtration systems), on site septic
systems can be designed and constructed so that the subject property will accommodate on site
septic disposal for nine (9) residences.

 5. Regarding criterion (E) above,

        A. The subject property is part of an exception area 1.8.that was excepted on April 23,

  PAGE 10-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                                                                          aun OL

                                                                                                  Ve
                                                                                          eh
                                                                                               \
1980 as part of Yamhill County Ordinance #234; therefore, the subject property.is not subject to
Goal 3 or Goal 4.

        B. The said zone change application was submitted on September 27, 2000.

        C. The effective date of Oregon Administrative Rule-660-004-0040 (the "Application of
Goal 14 to Rural Residential Areas") was October 4, 2000; specifically, section (6) of the said
OAR which states:

              "After the effective date of this rule, a local government's requirements for
minimum lot or parcel sizes in rural residential areas shall not be amended to allow a smaller
minimum for any individual lot or parcel without taking an exception to Goal 14."

            1). Since the zone change application for the subject property was submitted prior to the
effective date of the said OAR, the said OAR 660-004-0040 is not applicable to this application,
and thus, an exception to Goal 14 is not required.

FAADMINSANANLU\CarterEdwardsFowlerFindings.wpa

  PAGE 11-FINDINGS REGARDING ZONE CHANGE Z-02-00
                          fun   TA oe) 47

. TRANSPORTATION AND ACCESS
           ANALYSIS
                                                                                                             rin CL exce4 548
     B ASTER ENGINEERING
  MeeStudies      «   Planning   *   Safety

               February 19, 2001

               Michael G. Gunn
               PO Box 1046
               Newberg, OR 97132

               Re: Carter, Edwards, Fowler Zone Change Application Z-02-00

               Dear Mr. Gunn:

                       As you requested, I have examined the potential traffic impacts of a plan
               amendment and zone change for the Carter, Edwards, and Fowler property of ap-
               proximately 25 acres on Highway 99W in Yamhill County. I understand that there
               would be a maximum of seven parcels with residences, but the existing three residences
               on the property would be replaced by three new ones so that there would be a net in-
               crease of four residences. Four residential lots are proposed that would have access to
               Hyland Drive, and three lots would have access to Highway 99W. I also understand
               that Hyland Drive is a platted public roadway, and that if additional houses had access
               to the roadway, improvements to Hyland Drive would probably be required ‘in order to
               meet minimum Yamhill County roadway standards.

                       The intent of my study was to analyze the traffic impdet of the proposed change
               to VLDR 2.5 zoning and the development of seven residences and to determine whether
               adequate transportation services are available.

                         To estimate the number of trips that could be generated by the proposed residen-
               tial lots, trip rates from the TRIP GENERATION handbook,                              Sixth Edition, published by
               the Institute of Transportation Engineers, were used. Trip rates for ITE land-use cate-
               gory 210, Single-Family Detached Housing, are based on the number of dwelling units.

                         If four new          residential   lots were      to have      access    to Hyland       Drive,   they could
               generate up to 38 trips per day. During the peak hour of the day there would be four
               new trips generated by the four houses, an average of one car every 15 minutes. The
               capacity of a narrow, winding, low-speed two-way roadway without shoulders such as
               Hyland Drive is approximately 200 to 400 cars per hour, but the actual current peak-
               hour volume on Hyland Drive is well below this capacity. The addition of four cars

Unlon Station, Suite 206 * 800 N.W. 6th Avenue * Portland, OR 97209 » Phone (503) 248-0313 + FAX (503) 248-9251
                                                                                     / 7

                                            —
1       .   .   *

                                                                                       FALK   ral   PACE 4549
    TEANGASTER ENGINEERING
A

                     Michael G. Gunn
                     February 19, 2001
                     Page 2

                    _ during a one-hour period would have an insignificant impact on safety and congestion
                      on Hyland Drive and would not cause the roadway to approach or exceed its capacity.

                             There have been concerns expressed by existing residents regarding traffic
                    speeds on Hyland Drive, The addition of four trips during the peak hour would not, in
                    itself, result in a change in traffic speeds. Increased volumes can sometimes result in
                    reduced speeds, but in this case the additional volumes would not be sufficient to pro-
                    duce reduced speeds. If there are inappropriate speeds on the street, the installation of
                    speed humps to encourage low speeds would be a suitable mitigation.

                             The proposed three lots which would have access to Highway 99W would gen-
                    erate about 29 trips per day, and about three trips during the peak hour. These are the
                    same numbers of trips that are currently generated by the existing three houses that are
                    on this tax lot. If the existing three houses are removed and three new houses are con-
                    structed, there will be no net change to the trip generation or to the impact of traffic on
                    Highway 99W.

                             Based on the information available to me and on my analysis I have not found
                     any significant negative traffic impact of the proposed land-use action, With improve-
                     ments to the east end of Hyland Drive to meet County standards, adequate transporta-
                     tion services would be available to serve the proposed land use.

                              If you have any questions regarding this analysis, please let me know.

                     Yours truly,

                    Principal
                                                                                                       | cg      cL nee 1850
         ASTER ENGINEERING
         Studies    ¢ Planning      *   Safety

             u                                                FIRM PROFILE

                          Lancaster Engineering was formed in 1983, and has been involved in a vari-
                 ety of transportation planning, design, and operations projects in Oregon, Washing-
                 ton, and California. The firm specializes in traffic signals, signing, striping, traffic
                 control for light-rail systems, planning studies, geometric design, and traffic impact
                 studies.

                         Lancaster Engineering has also been involved in school safety studies, legal
                 testimony, access contro] studies, and accident analysis projects. Clients of the firm
                 have included transit agencies, public utility commissions, cities, counties, state
                 highway departments, universities, school districts, port districts, law firms, and
                 private developers.

                         Members of the firm include Registered Professional Civil Engineers in
                 Oregon, Washington, and Nevada, and registered Traffic Engineers in Oregon and
                 California.

                               Following are typical examples of projects in which ‘the firm has been in-
                 volved:

                     . A traffic safety and circulation study for Mt. Hood Community College in
                               Gresham, Oregon.

                               City-wide school crossing studies in Portland and Eugene, Oregon.

                     e     Traffic signal preemption at 30 traffic signals on the light-rail transit system
                           in Portland, Oregon.

                     «     A     study of traffic safety and signal preemption on the light-rail system in
                           San Jose, California.

                    e      City-wide traffic and safety studies for several cities in Oregon.

Union Station, Suite 206 * 800 N.W, 6th Avenue * Portland,OR 97209 + Phone (503) 248-0313 * FAX (503) 248-9251
                                      a
                                                                                 ~ FILK     rel ep      LOOL
A.   ENGINEERING

                   Plans and specifications for the installation of traffic signals in Albany, Bea-
                   verton, Bend, Lake Oswego, Oregon City, Portland, Redmond, Roseburg,
                   Salem, Sutherlin, Tigard, Tualatin, Vancouver, Washougal, Clark County,
                   Multnomah County, and Washington County.

                   A traffic access and circulation study for a proposed hotel and convention
                   center in Salem, Oregon.

                   Development of a proposed access control program for the Oregon Depart-
                   ment of Transportation.

                   Traffic   impact   studies   for numerous   residential,   commercial,   institutional,
                   and industrial development projects in Oregon and Washington.

                   Parking occupancy studies in Portland, Hillsboro and Depoe Bay, Oregon.

                   Traffic studies for Indian tribe gaming facilities in Oregon and Washington.

                   Traffic calming projects for several Oregon cities.
                                         ee                                         ve

                                                                                         FILE    TA    ce LOD   ;
sASTER ENGINEERING

                                                         Resume

          F                                    TOM R. LANCASTER, PE
                                                      Principal

                       As the Principal of Lancaster Engineering since formation of the firm in
              1983, Mr. Lancaster is in responsible charge of all projects produced by the firm.
              He has directed projects involving traffic signal designs, light-rail transit preemp-
              tion of traffic signals, signing and striping plans, construction traffic control plans,
              traffic calming programs, parking studies, and traffic safety studies.

                      Mr. Lancaster was previously Traffic Engineer for Lane County, Oregon,
              for seven years. He was responsible for all aspects of traffic engineering on County
              roads, including signing, striping, traffic signals, speed zoning, accident analysis,
              intersection and arterial layouts, and community relations. Prior to his position with
              Lane County, Mr. Lancaster was a traffic engineer with the Oregon Department of
              Transportation for six years. His responsibilities included reviewing safety and traf-
              fic operations aspects of design proposals for highway construction projects, evalu-
              ating traffic signal systems for arterial streets, developing State standards for high-
              way signing and striping, and the preparation of traffic studies for small cities.

                      Mr. Lancaster received a BS degree in Civil Engineering from Oregon State
              University and an MS degree in Transportation Engineering from the University of
              California,   He   is   a member   of the Transportation   Research   Board,      the American
              Society of Civil Engineers, the National Committee on Uniform Traffic Control
              Devices Railroad Grade Crossing Subcommittee, and the Institute of Transportation
              Engineers,

                       He is a Past President of District 6 (comprising the 13 western states) of the
              Institute of Transportation Engineers. He has been a guest lecturer at the Trans-
              portation Research Institute at Oregon State University on the subjects of traffic en-
              gineering fundamentals,         accident mitigation, and   uniform    traffic control   device
              standards,

                      Mr. Lancaster is a Registered Professional Civil Engineer in Oregon, Wash-
              ington, and Nevada, and a registered Traffic Engineer in Oregon and California.
              He is also a certified Professional Traffic Operations Engineer in Oregon.
                                              a                                                        ~          vin PACE 1583

       BASTER ENGINEERING
      Studies     *   Planning   »   Safety

               April 30, 2001
               Michael G. Gunn
               PO Box 1046
               Newberg, OR 97132

               Re: Carter, Edwards, Fowler Zone Change Application Z-02-00

               Dear Mr. Gunn:                 ”

                        As you requested, I have examined the potential traffic impacts of a plan
               amendment and zone change for the Carter, Edwards, and Fowler property of ap-
               proximately 25 acres on Highway 99W in Yamhill County. I understand that a maxi-
               mum of seven residences are planned, but that the zoning code would allow up to none.
               In either case, the existing three residences on the property would be replaced by three
               new ones so that there would be a net increase of no more than six residences. Three
               of the lots would have access to Highway 99W as they do now, and the remainder
               would have access to Hyland Drive. I also understand that Hyland Drive is a platted
               public roadway, and that if additional houses had access to the roadway, improvements
               to Hyland Drive would probably be required by the Yamhill County Public Works De-
             _ partment.

                      The intent of my study was to analyze the traffic impact of the proposed change
               to VLDR 2.5 zoning and the development of up to nine residences and to determine
               whether adequate transportation services are available.

                         To estimate the number of trips that could be generated by the proposed residen-
               tial lots, trip rates from the TRIP GENERATION handbook, Sixth Edition, published by
               the Institute of Transportation Engineers, were used.                         Trip rates for ITE land-use cate-
               gory 210, Single-Family Detached Housing, are based on the number of dwelling units.

                         If six new residential lots were to have access to Hyland Drive, they could gen-
               erate up to 58 trips per day. During the peak hour of the day there would be six new
               trips generated by four houses, an average of one car every ten minutes. The capacity
               of a narrow, winding, low-speed two-way roadway without shoulders such as Hyland
               Drive is approximately 200 to 400 cars per hour, but the actual current peak-hour vol-
               ume on Hyland Drive is well below this capacity. The addition of six cars during a

Union Station, Sulte 206 * 800 N.W. 6th Avenue * Portland, OR 97209 + Phone (503) 248-0313 * FAX (503) 248-9251
                                         oe                                             |             |    /
‘

        ENGINEERING                                                                     FIL   Uh    PACE 1554
    a

            Michael G. Gunn
            April 30, 2001
            Page 2

            one-hour period would have an insignificant impact on safety and congestion on Hyland
            Drive and would not cause the roadway to approach or exceed its capacity.

                     There have been concerns expressed by existing residents regarding traffic
            speeds on Hyland Drive. The addition of six trips during the peak hour would not, in
            itself, result in a change in traffic speeds. Increased volumes can sometimes result in
            reduced speeds, but in this case the additional volumes would not be sufficient to pro-
            duce reduced speeds. If there are inappropriate speeds on the street, the installation of
            speed humps to encourage low speeds would be a suitable mitigation.

                     The proposed three lots which would have access to Highway 99W would gen-
            erate about 29 trips per day, and about three trips during the peak hour. These are the
            same numbers of trips that are currently generated by the existing three houses that are
            on this tax lot. If the existing three houses are removed and three new houses are con-
            structed, there will be no net change to the trip generation or to the impact of traffic on
            Highway 99W.

                    Based on the information available to me and on my analysis I have not found
            any significant negative traffic impact of the proposed land-use action. With certain
            improvements to the east end of Hyland Drive to meet County standards, adequate
          _ transportation services would be available to serve the proposed land use.
                                                                                 io

                           If you have any questions regarding this analysis, please let me know.

            Yours truly,

                  [                   —=——
            Tom       R.          ster, PE
            Principal
                  n
                      re Th ne A555
              !

SEPTIC ANALYSIS
                                                                            »     ne CL nce 556
                                                                          Boatwright         Engineering            Inc.
                                                                            2613 12th ST SE, SALEM, OREGON 97302
                                                                                 civil engineers © land surveyors

                                                                            (603) 363-9225        (FAX) 363-1051

                                                                  February 19, 2001

 Michael G. Gunn P.C., Attorney at Law

 FAX; (503) 537-0591
RE:      ZONE CHANGE EDWARDS, CARTER, FOWLER Z-02-00

 Dear Mr.   Gunn,

           I was retained to determine if the subject property could provide sanitary septic service
 for 7 residences. The information provided identified that the site will require an interceptor
 drain and a capped fill for on site disposal of sewage effluent when considered earlier for an Auto
 Dealership.

          The use of the site for 7 dwellings, 2'4 acre parcel, would also require an interceptor drain
 and a capped fill. On site disposal for the auto dealership proposal identified waste water from
 30 people day needs, say 15 gpd or 450 gallons per day of waste water, requiring a drain field of
 375. lineal feet, Seven single family dwellings, 3 bedrooms would generate 140 gpcd per
 bedroom or 420 gallons per residence per day or 2940 gallons per day of waste water at design.
 This would equate a drain field of 2450 LF of drain field at 1.2 gpd per lineal foot plus a 100%
 replacement area,

         1 am of the opinion it will be necessary to install a recirculating sand filter treatment
 system prior to the drain field reducing the drain field size by 2/3 or to be equal to 2.33
 residences a reasonable on site disposal,

         A 7 residential recirculating sand filter would consist of individual septic tanks at each
 house, a dilution dose tank of a volume equal to the daily sewage flow (3000 gallons) and a
 recirculating sand filter size with a filter area equal to the daily flow of waste water at 5 gallons
 per day per square foot of filter, say 600 square feet. D.E.Q. would require a permit to develop a
 capped fill, the individual septic tanks gravity collector system and the recirculating sand filter
 treatment system including the pumps and controls. DEQ has issued permits for similar
 development in the last 2 years.
                                                                     ny               Th eee 557
Page 2

         On site surge treatment and disposal is allowable with a public water system as long as
the wells are at least 100 feet away from the drain field and up gradient.

         In my opinion, on site sewage disposal on the subject property for 7 residences along with
a private water system are both possible under current rules and regulations in effect in the State
of Oregon.

         Give me a call if you have any questions,

                                                      Yours truly,

                                                         NMA 4 bi
                                                      Martin G. Boatwright P.E.
“Martin Boatwright, P.E.,-L.S.                                                    ~      run    TL     cc 558

             Martin Boatwright has extensive experience in a wide variety of fields of Civil Engineering and Land
             Surveying. He has spent 40 years in Private Engineering Employment (Consulting Firms) in the State of
             Oregon. As Principal Engineer of a private firm since 1962 all types of engineering investigations, reports,
             designs and construction supervision projects have been completed under his direct supervision.

EMPLOYMENT
         ‘   Civil Engineer                                                                                  1960-present
             BOATWRIGHT ENGINEERING, INC.                                                                   SALEM, OREGON
             Principal Engineer

             Drafter and Field Surveyor                                                                        1950-1960
             BOATWRIGHT ENGINEERING                                                                       SALEM, OREGON
             Assistant Drafter of engineering plans. Field survey of preliminary data, construction staking and property
             boundaries. Quantities and calculations.

EDUCATION    B.S. Civil Engineering                                                                             1957-1960
             OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY                                                                  CORVALLIS, OREGON
             Graduate School Courses: Advanced Fluid Mechanics and Pre-stressed Concreted
             Undergraduate Work                                                                                  1956-1957
             WILLAMETTE UNIVERSITY                                                                          SALEM,OREGON
             CONTINUING EDUCATION
             Pavement Design, Dam Safety

             REGISTRATION:           Registered Professional Engineer, State of Oregon
                                     Registered Professional Survey, State of Oregon

             MEMBERSHIP:             Consulting Engineers of Oregon
                                     Professional Engineers of Oregon
                                     Marion County Building Code of Appeals
                                     Tau Beta Pi, Engineering Honor Society
                                     Sigma Tau, Engineering Honor Society.
                                     Phi Kappi Phi, Honor Society             ‘

SKILLS
             .      Conducted and supervised many rural and urban water system analysis and prepared engineering
                    feasibility studies, developed financial programs to cover construction and right of way costs along
                    with the final plans, specifications and contract documents. Rights of ways and land acquisitions
                    have been acquired under his supervision along with necessary County, Railroad and State
                    Highway Permits.

                    Many of these projects required developing new sources of supply, treatment facilities where
                    necessary, pumping and control equipment, master plans of distribution system for sizing and
                    configuration, inline storage, reservoir sites and capacity determinations. These projects range in
                    cost from $25,000 to over $6,000,000 and in size from a few miles of pipe to in excess of 100 miles
                    of pipe. These projects have required extensive engineering and judgement to allow service to
                    large areas of low density population within acceptable economic limits.

             .      Experienced with administering Grand      Fund Contracts from HUD,     Farms     Home    Administration,
                    OEDD, EPA and DEQ.

             .      Prepared countywide sewer and water plans for Polk, Yamhill, Columbia, Grant, Sherman                and
                    Wheeler Counties.
                                                                                4   mee     1559
                                                                     FAL
Investigated   and   designed   many   Sanitary   Sewer   Projects    varying   in size from    minor   lateral
extensions to major trunk lines, treatment plan modifications and           complete      new treatment plant
facitities.

Participates in Land Use Matters including Master Plans, Zone Changes, Conditional Use Permits,
Partitionings, Subdivisions and Planned Unit Developments on projects varying in size from a few
acres, up to 700 acres with 1400 dwelling units.

Called upon to represent various public agencies in the correction of storm damage severe enough
to obtain Presidential Disaster Declarations.     Work supervised, engineered and cost accounted and
controlled through the letting of contracts are as follows:

1.     Land Slide Removal and Stabilization, Canyon City
2.     Bridge Replacement (26) Oregon State Forestry, (8) Ashland, Oregon
3,     Channel and Surface Debris Clearance:
            City of Tillamook
            City of Ashland
             City of Manzanita
             City of Corvallis
       Dredging of Reservoir Storm Deposits, City of Ashland
OE

       Dam Emergency Repair, City of Tillamook
       Bank Removement, Port of Tillamook and Bay City, Oregon
NO

       Structural Repair, Blimp Hanger Walls and Roof System, Port of Tillamook

Recent design and construction supervision of:

1.     5,000,000 gallon reservoir and new 20" and 12" supply lines; reconstruction of slow sand filters
       1 and 2 with miscellaneous piping modifications to waste; and reconstruction of South 1*
       Avenue for City of Stayton,

2.     New 500,000 and 50,000 galion reservoirs; new spring collection system for springs 3 and 4;
       Willamina Creek Waterline Extension for Grand Ronde Community Water Association.

3.      Riemer Road Well Field development, 53,000 gallon reservoir, 3 wells with pump controls,
        piping and housing, Perrydale Domestic Water Association.

4.      Gravity collection sewer system duplex pump station and 14,000 lineal feet of pressure sewer
        line for Fargo Interchange Service District, Marion County Public Works.

5.   | Numerous irrigation and recreational dams and storage reservoirs.

Experienced with projects requiring FEMA elevation certification.

Regularly prepares DOGAMI permits.
Experienced with wetlands inventories, permits for fill and removal, and mitigation.

Works on water right matters; new applications for groundwater, surface water and stored water.
                                                                       FILE         71 1560
                                                                      Boatwright Engineering Inc.
                                                                        2613 12th ST SE, SALEM, OREGON 97302
                                                                             civil engineers © land surveyors

                                                                        (503) 363-9225     (FAX) 363-1051

 "                                                    May 11, 2001

Michael G.     Gunn, P.C.
P.O. Box 1046
Newberg, Oregon 97132

RE:     ON-SITE SEWAGE EFFLUENT DISPOSAL POTENTIAL 25 ACRE + SITE FACING
        99W BETWEEN NEWBERG AND DUNDEE, OREGON

Dear Mr.     Gunn,

        As per your request I have inspected the acreage tract facing 99W in the east half of
Section 24, T38, R3W, Willamette Meridian, Yamhill County, Oregon, within the David Rasey
DLL No. 59 in Yamhill County,

         The soil maps were inspected, topography of the site, type of vegetation and ground cover
and 3 related housing units, a masonry company, fitness gym and RV storage lot to develop an
understanding of the site natural features and uses of the land to date. Most of the site has a
modest slope parallel to 99W downward from S SW to N NE with ground cover consisting of
scattered oak trees largely free of brush and grass ground cover in untreed areas.

        An interceptor drain had been constructed parallel the west property line, in the last 3
years or so, 15 to 20 feet into this site.

         At the south end of the property next to 99W and the northen end of the property north of
Hylands Drive the natural ground was found to possess soils with the best drainage and greatest
potential for on site sewage effluent disposal. The soils map identify the soils on site as
Woodburn siit loam at the south end of the parcel, and covering some 6 acres at the north end of
the parcel. Between the better soils are located Amity and Dayton silty loams with poorer natural
drainage than Woodburn. The long term effect of the interceptor drain is unknown at the time,
we do know that it is going to improve the soil ground water removal.

        The amount of Woodburn soils available on site clearly identifies that soils exist that are
suitable for on site effluent disposal. The final design must address the location of these more
desirable soils and make them available to the individual residential tracts. Each residential unit
                           ee                                       oe!      FAL   Ti    nce 564

On Site Sewage Affluent Disposal
Page 2

will require 300 to 450 LF of drainfield.

        In my opinion, an on site sewage affluent disposal system can be designed so that the
subject parcel can accommodate 9 separate 2.5 acre residential parcels.
  t

                                                     Yours truly,

                                                        Lenk. 4 WorbeQ
                                                     Martin G. Boatwright, P.E.

MGB/kv

                    Lexporaas (24-07
                        seu?   LH   A   vee   LO62

WATER AND STORM WATER
  ;    ANALYSIS
                               Ne
                                                                        EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.
                                                                 Consulting Environmental & Water Resources Scientists

              5
70050001          _                                                                   au      TL nce L563

Michael G. Gunn, P.C.
201 North Meridian Street
PO Box 1046
Newberg, Oregon 97132
                                                                                            VIA Hand Delivery
Attention:        Michael G. Gunn
                  Attorney at Law

Subject:          Water Supply and Stormwater Management for Re-Zoning Application
                  Carter, Edwards, Fowler/Chehalem Creek Properties
                  Yamhill County, Oregon

Dear Mr. Gunn:

An application to change the zoning of a property from AF-10 to VLDR-2.5 has been submitted
to Yamhill County for consideration.       As a result, questions regarding water supply and
stormwater management have been raised. This letter presents information related to water
matters at the Chehalem Creek Properties site southwest of Newberg in Yamhill County, Oregon.
The subject property, and related area thereto, is located in Township 3 South, Range 3 West,
Sections 24 and 25; and Township 3 South, Range 2 West, Section 19, Willamette baseline and
meridian, and is shown on Figure 1. The property covers approximately 25 acres.

EnviroLogic       Resources,    Inc.,   was   retained   by   Messrs.    Carter,   Edwards,     and    Fowler,     aka
Chehalem Creek Properties, to provide an expert opinion regarding whether the property will
support water supply and stormwater management for the total of seven residences that could be
built under the proposed new zoning designation. Currently, there are three residences on the
property. For purposes of evaluating water supply and stormwater matters, four new residences
are considered added to the property.

Ground water is an important source of water for populations in Yamhill and nearby counties. In
response to pressures on the ground-water supply in rural residential areas, Marion County
promulgated an ordinance (Chapter 181 of the Marion County Rural Zoning Ordinance) designed
to guide the evaluation of ground-water availability in partition and subdivision applications. As
such, this ordinance is a relevant and appropriate guidance for the evaluation presented in this
letter. In the sections that follow, salient information about the subsurface hydrogeologic system
will be discussed and calculations as used in the Marion County ordinance will be presented.

The ground-water availability calculation is based on determining the amount of recharge the
target aquifer receives, and comparing the recharge to the projected amount that will be
consumptively used. The recharge is calculated for the Study Area, as defined in the ordinance
(the area within %4-mile of the property boundary), from annual precipitation over the area.

8948 SW Barbur Blvd #56, Portland, Oregon       97219-4047 (503)768-5121 fax (503)768-5122         www.h2ogeo.com
                                                                   “EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

                                                                          FILA   vil   nor    Od
Mr. Michael G. Gunn.
February 21, 2001
Page 2

Usage is based on the number of parcels in Study Area and a rate set in the ordinance (525
gallons per day), plus the amount of water withdrawals authorized by water rights and permits.

Stormwater management will be addressed in terms of a projected amount of new impervious
area as a result of complete development of the property under the proposed zoning change.

REGIONAL HYDROGEOLOGY

The Study Area (Figure 1) is located in the Willamette Valley, north of the Willamette River,
southwest of the city of Newberg. The subject property is just south of Harvey Creek. The area
is composed of lacustrine and fiuvial sediments and rocks of the Pleistocene. These geologic
units generally consists of unconsolidated to semiconsolidated lacustrine clay, silt, sand, and
gravel; and in places includes mudflow and fluvial deposits and discontinuous layers of peat.
The unit includes older alluvium and related deposits of Piper (1942), Willamette Silt, alluvial
silt, sand, and gravel that form terrace deposits of Wells and others (1983), and Gresham and
Estacada Formations of Trimble (1963). Beneath the sedimentary unit is basalt of the Columbia
River Basalt Group, which generally is the target aquifer for development of new water supply
wells,

The land surface elevation of the subject property ranges from 160 to 180 feet above mean sea
level. The Oregon Climate Service reports a mean precipitation in McMinnville of 41.86 inches
per year over the 1961-1990 period. Recharge to alluvial systems occurs by infiltration of
precipitation, irrigation water, and septic systems. Columbia River Basalt aquifers are recharged
by release of water from overlying saturated alluvial sediments to the basalt.

Ground water occurs in the basalt of the Columbia River Basalt Group in semi-confined or
confined conditions where it occurs below saturated alluvium. In upland areas, basalt aquifers
can have perched or unconfined zones as well.       The tops and bottoms of the volcanic flows
generally are more rubbly and/or vesicular and readily transmit water to wells.           Vertical
migration of water through basalt can occur where fractures from columnar jointing are
sufficiently dense and fully penetrating. The sedimentary units yield small to moderate quantities
of water to some wells,

GEOLOGY/HYDROGEOLOGY OF THE STUDY AREA

Several soil types are present within the Study Area. The soil types covering the most area are
those of the Amity silt loam series and Woodburn silt loam, which consist of somewhat poorly-
drained to moderately well-drained soils that formed in old alluvium on valley terraces with 0 to
3.percent slopes. A small area of Dayton silt loam, which consists of poorly-drained soils is
present on the property in an area currently considered a wetland environment. Permeabilities of
these soils range from 0.2 to 2.0 inches per hour (USDA, 1983).
                                                                   ~EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

Mr. Michael G, Gun,                                                            Ye
February 21,2001                                                         aus TL nec 569
Page 3

Lacustrine and fluvial sedimentary rocks of the Pleistocene time are present beneath the surface
soil profile. Below the soils and the sedimentary unit is the Columbia River Basalt. This unit
supplies most of the water to wells in the Study Area.

Well logs of representative wells in the Study Area were retrieved from the GRID database from
the Oregon Water Resources Department (WRD) website.                 A review of these well logs,
summarized on Table 1 and presented in Appendix A, shows the principal hydrogeologic units
from youngest to oldest, are: 1) a clay of variable thickness over the Study Area; and 2) basalt.
The clay ranges from 0 feet to over 230 feet thick. Basalt boulders are sometimes found within
this unit. At times clay is also found layered within the basalt layers.

Basalts of the Columbia River Basalt Group occur below the clay and silt, where it is present.
Wells drilled into the basalts encounter decomposed,      weathered, fractured, or broken zones
alternating with harder layers. Identification of specific aquifer zones is not possible because of
the variety of descriptors used and the variation in depths of where water is present. It is likely
that ground water in the basalt aquifers occurs in a confined or semi-confined condition.

There are 17 wells identified on parcels within the Study Area, including one on the subject
property and one on the parcel inside of the subject property. Of these, none have been deepened
since they were originally drilled according to WRD records. One well, which appears to have
been a test well, has been abandoned. Guidance in the Marion County evaluation process
suggests that when more than 10 percent of the wells in an area have been deepened, a potential
problem with declining water levels may exist. Because, according to WRD records, none of the
wells in the study area have been deepened, declining water levels do not appear to have been an
historical problem in the Study Area.

Several certificated or permitted water rights have been granted within the Study Area. Two
permits (Hillview Acres Water District and Wilderness Canyon Water District) name a well as
the source. These permits will allow for irrigation of 20 acres of land and domestic supply for 45
households.   Many of these are for domestic use and/or name a surface water source for the
water.   Information pertaining to water rights within the Study Area is presented in Appendix B.

GROUND-WATER RECHARGE AND USAGE

Recharge to the ground-water system occurs through direct infiltration of precipitation and
irrigation water, and from effluent from septic systems. Recharge enters the Columbia River
Basalt Group aquifer system by the release of water from storage in the saturated alluvial
sediments,
                                                                    ~EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

Mr. Michael G. Gunn.                                                          FIL   7A    nce   L566
February 21, 2001
Page 4

The ground-water budget for the Study Area is evaluated by multiplying the mean annual
precipitation by an average annual recharge rate. The result is then applied over the area of the
Study Area to calculate the recharge from precipitation in acre-feet per year. Additionally,
recharge from effluent from septic systems is calculated based on a per capita rate and the
number of parcels in the Study Area (Snyder and others, 1994). These are added together to
develop a volume of Total Recharge for the Study Area, Discharge is based on the number of
parcels and an assumed consumption per parcel added to the permitted ground-water use in the
Study Area. The ground-water budget calculations are presented on Table 2.

In this analysis, 266.34 acre-feet of water recharges the aquifer from precipitation. Another
10.40 acre-feet are estimated to recharge from septic effluent for a total recharge of 276.75 acre-
feet. Irrigation recharge is not considered in these calculations, Discharge amounts to 223.60
acre-feet, including permitted ground-water use and the new potential parcels in the proposed
zone change. Total discharge is 81 percent of total recharge. If septic recharge is disregarded,
the total discharge becomes 84 percent of precipitation recharge.

These values are based on a recharge rate of 16% of annual precipitation (NGS, 1997).      While a
number of factors can influence the average annual recharge rate (estimates range from 0.5% to
16% in Marion County), 16% is considered by NGS to be a reliable estimate for the Columbia
River Basalt Group when overlaid by a saturated alluvial aquifer. Site-specific hydrogeologic
conditions may cause the average annual recharge rate in an area to deviate from this value, but
collection of data to make this kind of analysis is unwarranted for this proposed zone change.

Is there enough water to support the proposed zone change? Guidance from Marion County
indicates that a proposed partition or subdivision may proceed if the amount of recharge used is
less than 90 percent. Based on the scope of analysis included in this evaluation, EnviroLogic
Resources believes that sufficient ground-water supplies are available without causing an adverse
impact on surrounding properties. The proposed zone change adds four households to the Study
Area, Long-term water-level trends are not declining in a nearby state observation well. No
wells in the Study Area have been deepened, according to WRD records, indicating that there has
not been an historic problem with water levels. While other areas of the County may have
experienced water level declines as discussed by the City of Newberg, these conditions do not
appear to predominate in the study based available records.

In EnviroLogic Resources’ opinion, based on a reasonable degree of scientific certainty, this
area will support a water supply for seven residences without adversely affecting the
surrounding properties.
                              —                                   ™~EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

Mr. Michael G. Gunn.                                                          FILA   7A   ct   LBT
February 21, 2001
Page 5

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

Four new residences and a roadway may potentially be added to the property as a result of
development in accordance with the proposed zone change. Each new residence may add up to
2,500 square feet of new impervious area to the property, including a 16 feet by 30 feet driveway.
This amounts to 10,000 square feet of new impervious area for residences. New roadway is
assumed to be constructed for a linear distance of approximately 660 feet. If this road is assumed
to be 16 feet wide, it will add another 10,000 square feet of impervious area to the property. The
additional 20,000 square feet of impervious area amounts to less than 2 percent of the total
property area. Stormwater runoff from this new impervious area can be sufficiently managed on
the property, especially if Best Management Practices and low impact development concepts
(Coffman and others, 1998) are applied. Stormwater can be adequately managed on the property
with an eventual exit point to Harvey Creek without adverse impact to surrounding properties.

In EnviroLogic Resources’ opinion, based on a reasonable degree of scientific certainty, this
area will support a stormwater management system for seven residences without adverse
impact to surrounding properties.

CLOSING COMMENTS

The information collected during the preparation of this evaluation describes the ground-water
and stormwater conditions in the Study Area sufficiently to draw the conclusions presented
within reasonable certainties. While the availability of new and more quantitative information
could modify the calculations, collection of these data does not appear to be warranted.

Please call me at (503)768-5121 if you have any questions or coniments.

Sincerely,
EnviroLogic,    Resolirces, Inc.

Th           . Calabrese, R.G.
Principal/Hydrogeologist

ce:
clients/chehalemereekproperties/mgg022101
                                   water.doc
                                                               ~E£nviroLogic Resources, Inc.

Mr. Michael G. Gunn.                                                       an TA 4568
February 21, 2001
Page 6

ATTACHMENTS

Table 1       Local Well Inventory
Table 2       Recharge Calculations
Figure 1      Site Location
Figure 2      Study Area
Figure 3      Hydrograph for Well YAMH 2428
Appendix A    Well Logs
Appendix B    Water Rights
Appendix C .. Resume for Thomas J. Calabrese, RG, CWRE

REFERENCES

Coffman, L.S., M.L. Clar, and N. Weinstein, 1998, New low impact design: site planning and
       design techniques for stormwater management:  Proceedings         of the    1998 National
       Planning Conference, AICPPress,
       http://www.asu.edu/caed/proceedings98/coffmn/coffmn.
                                                        html.

Golder Associates, 1997, Review of NGS, Inc. Geohydrologic Study: Consultant report prepared
       for the Marion County Planning Division, Salem, Oregon, August 14, 1997, 2 p.

Gray, D.M., 1970, Handbook on the principles of hydrology:    Reprinted in 1973 by the Water
       Information Center, Inc., Syosset, New York.

Marion County Planning Division, 1999, A manual for completion of hydrogeology reviews and
       studies in compliance with the Marion County Sensitive Groundwater Overlay Zone:
       Marion County Planning Division, 9 p.

Northwest Geological Services, Inc., 1997, Geologic and hydrogeologic study of the residential
       acreage-zoned areas of Marion County underlain by the Columbia River Basalt and older
       rocks: Consultant report prepared for the Marion County Community Development
       Department, Salem, Oregon, May 1997, 51 p.

Orzol, L.L., Wozniak, K.C., Meissner, T.R., and Lee, D.B., 2000, Ground-water and water-
       chemistry data for the Willamette Basin, Oregon:       U.S.   Geological    Survey   Water
       Resources Investigations Report 99-4036, 141p.

Piper, A.M., 1942, Ground-water resources of the Willamette Valley, Oregon:       U.S. Geological
        Survey Water Supply Paper 890, 194p.
                                                                    EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.
                                                                i   .     *     2

Mr. Michael G. Gunn.                                                    rua   U4 nor     569
February 21, 2001
Page 7

Snyder, D.T., Morgan, D.S., and McGrath, T.S., 1994, Estimation of ground-water recharge from
       precipitation, runoff into drywells, and on-site waste disposal systems in the Portland
       Basin, Oregon and Washington:     U.S. Geological Survey Water-Resources Investigations
       Report 92-4010, 34 p.

Trimble, D.E., 1963, Geology of Portland, Oregon, and adjacent areas: U.S. Geological Survey
       Bulletin 1119, 110p., scale 1:62,500

U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1971, Soil survey of Yamhill County area: U.S, Dept of
       Agriculture Soil Conservation Service, prepared in cooperation with the Oregon
       Agricultura Experiment Station.

U.S. Geological Survey, 1986, Newberg, Oregon, 7.5' quadrangle:           U.S. Geological Survey
       topographic map series, 1:24,000.

Walker, G.W. and MacLeod, N.S., 1991, Geologic map of Oregon:             U.S. Geological Survey,
       scale 1:500,000.

Wells, R.E., Niem, A.R., MacLeod, N.S., Snavely, P.D., Jr., and Niem, W.A., 1983, Preliminary
       geologic map of the west half of the Vancouver (Washington-Oregon) 1° by 2°
       quadrangle, Oregon: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 83-591, scale 1:250,000.

Whiteman, K.J., Vaccaro, J.J., Gonthier, J.B., and Bauer, H.H., 1994, The hydrogeologic
       framework and geochemistry of the.Columbia Plateau Aquifer System, Washington,
       Oregon, and Idaho: U.S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 1413-B, 73 p.
    oe”
                                 EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

                                     rua TL nee L870

              APPENDIX C

RESUME for THOMAS J. CALABRESE, RG, CWRE
                                  \
                                      \
                                                                                 En oc                  SS
THOMAS J. CALABRESE, R.G.                                                                  FILE         a
Principal/Hydrogeologist
                                                                                                     TY /                 51
CREDENTIALS/REGISTRA TIONS                                 variety of hydrogeologic and geophysical                              tools,
                                                           including several ground-water model codes.
A.B., Geology, Occidental College, 1981
GradStudy, MineEng, Univ of Nev-Reno, 1981-1983            KEY PROJECTS
Hydrogeology Studies, Wright St Univ, 1985
Registered Geologist, Oregon G1784 and California 5391     Water       Resources         Evaluation         for         Agricultural
Certified Water Rights Examiner No. 60488                  Concern      - Supervised        ground-water                management
                                                           planning and basin development for a large alfalfa
PROFESSIONAL AFFILIATIONS                                  and rice farm in Modoc County, California. Sited
                                                           production wells capable of producing 5,000 to
Association of Ground-Water Scientist and Engineers        10,000 gpm from volcanic aquifers, planned and
American Society for Testing and Materials                 performed aquifer tests, and monitored the effects of
Oregon Association of Environmental Professionals          iron-bacteria contamination problems on the specific
Geological Society of America                              capacity of affected wells.
Citizen Member - Tryon Creek Watershed Council
Board Member — Oregon Water Resources Congress             Stormwater          Compliance         Evaluation            for     Utility
                                                           Company        ~-    Reviewed          current         and         proposed
SPECIALIZED EXPERTISE                                      stormwater regulations and compliance status for
                                                           multiple sites in Oregon and Washington. Made
Water-Resources Evaluations                                recommendations          for best       management                 practices
        >      Water Supply and Water Quality              and     a strategy     for addressing            future        regulatory
        >      Aquifer Testing and Modeling                changes.
         >       Well Design and Construction
         >       Geophysical Techniques                    Residential    Water    Seepage    Evaluation     -
        >      Stormwater                                  Investigated hydrogeologic factors contributing to
RI/FS and RD/RA related to:                                water seepeage into subgrade of a home in
        >      Hydrocarbons                                Washington County, Oregon.
        >      Wood Treating & MGPs
        >      Solvents                                    Ground-Water Exploration and Development for
Property Transfer/Redevelopment Assessments                Food-Processing  Industry  - Developed   and
Litigation Support/Expert Witness                          implemented ‘sa     program                 consisting     of   a
Strategic Planning/Environmental Management                hydrogeologic évaluation and                test-well drilling to
Project Management                                         evaluate the availability of ground-water resources in
                                                           Tillamook County, Oregon.
EXPERIENCE           SUMMARY
                                                           Ground-Water       Supply — Management — and
                                                           Development for Agriculture - Managed and planned
As Principal of EnviroLogic Resources, Inc., Mr.
                                                           the ground-water exploration, development, and
Calabrese is the lead investigator and project
                                                           management program in basalt aquifers for a farm in
manager for all work for this consulting practice. Mr.
                                                           Eastern    Washington.         Prepared _ regional
Calabrese has nearly 20 years of experience and is a
                                                           hydrogeologic evaluations and site-specific data to
technical leader in the collection and interpretation of
                                                           support     water    rights    applications        and        protect the
hydrogeological and chemical data to describe
                                                           resource.
ground-water flow and contaminant transport. He
has conducted hydrogeological studies in several
                                                           Expert Witness for Stormwater Matter - Reviewed
western states for water resources exploration and
                                                           hydrogeologic conditions and provided an opinion
development     and    for ground-water       protection
                                                           regarding partition conditions as they related to the
programs.    Mr. Calabrese has been successful in
                                                           installation of stormwater control structures in
identifying reliable water supplies for agriculture,
                                                           Ciackamas County, Oregon.
property development, and mining companies using a
:                                       vane                                              “saat?
                                                                                                        EnviroLogic Resources
THOMAS J. CALABRESE, RG, CWRE
Principal/Hydrogeologist                                                                           run TE mcd 572
Hydrogeologic Evaluation for Agricultural Property                 Dewatering Study at Power Generating Facility -
- Performed a hydrogeologic study to make                          Designed      and      implemented       a modeling                study to
recommendations on potential water supplies for an                 evaluate     design     parameters       for a new             dewatering
agricultural property in Gilliam County, Oregon.                   system to be installed at a electrical generating station
Conducted preliminary ground-water modeling to                     in Long Beach, California.
evaluate potential pumping levels in Columbia River
Basalt Group aquifers.                                             Wellhead      Protection           Analyses        —      Conducted       an
                                                                   analysis of the risk to municipal water supply wells
Aquifer Characterization for Agriculture - Performed               from a proposed new service stations in Clark
aquifer testing of a confined groundwater system in                County, Washington. The analyses was made by
volcanic aquifers featuring flowing geothermal wells               calibrating an analytical model of ground-water flow
in   Harney   County,    Oregon,   as          part   of a water   and coupling conceptual contaminant transport
resources evaluation.        »                                     scenarios to the calibrated model.

Production-Well Maintenance Program for Property                   PUBLICATIONS/PRESENTATIONS
Development - Prepared and implemented a well
rehabilitation program to bring an unused well in                  Spreizer, G.M., T.J. Calabrese, and R.S. Weidner,                      1991,
Keizer, Oregon, back into productive use. Conducted                           Assessing the Usability of Historical Water-
ground-water sampling and           aquifer testing to                        Quality Data for Current and Future Applications:
characterize     the resource      for potential    use                       ASTM Symposium on Ground Water and
classifications.                                                              Vadose      Zone   Investigations,  San    Diego,
                                                                              California, January 1991.
 Water Resources Evaluation for Future Development                 Calabrese,     TJ.   and  M.R.    San  Miguel,   1993,
Site - Developed and supervised a three-phase                                Environmental Firms Make a Difference: Job
program of geophysical exploration, test drilling, and                       Training in Los Angeles: Ground Water Age
well construction and testing to assess ground-water                          Magazine, October 1993.
resources for a future residential development site in
the Santa Ynez River Valley, Santa Barbara County,                 Calabrese,     T.J.,       1994,       Designing             Investigations,
California,                                                                   Environmental Science for Lawyers, Lenders,
                                                                              Corporate,     Government     & Real  Estate
                                                                              Professionals: Short Course by Law Seminars
Hydrogeology Review for Subdivision - Performed a
                                                                              International, The Governor Hotel, Portland,
Hydrogeology Review under a Marion County,                                    Oregon, July 21 and 22, 1994,
Oregon, ordinance to support a subdivision and
development of property in a Ground-Water Limited                  Calabrese, T.J., 1995, Hydrocarbon Investigations and
Area,                                                                        Cleanup,    Fundamentals     of   Groundwater
                                                                             Contamination and Remediation: Short Course by
Water Resource Evaluations - Performed geophysical                           University of Wisconsin-Madison, Tropicana
surveys, hydrologic mapping, test drilling, and                               Hotel, Las Vegas, Nevada, May 15-17, 1995.
aquifer testing to locate and effectively utilize water
resources for a placer mining operation in the                     Saar, R. and T.J. Calabrese, 1996, Quality Assurance for
Northwestern Mojave Desert and a lode deposit in                            Environmental Investigations: Two-hour seminar
                                                                              presented to the Port              of       Portland,   Portland,
the Southeastern Mojave Desert, California.
                                                                              Oregon, January 1996,

Ground-Water      Resource    Development    —_for                 Calabrese, T.J. and L.E. Roberts, 1996, Managing Your
Residential Supply - Conducted drilling and well                             Environmental Projects:     Presentation to the
design in volcanic terrain to develop a deep ground-                         Washington      Public     Ports ~— Association
water resource for use at a vacation home in Nevada                          Environmental        Committee,         Olympia,
County, California.                                                          Washington, February 1996.
                                                                                             %     }

                                                                                En viroLogic Resources, Inc.
                                                                            Consulting Environmental & Water Resources Scientists

                                                                                                        FILR    TA      PACE 1973
May 15, 2001
 10059.001

Michael G. Gunn, P.C.
 201 North Meridian Street
PO Box 1046
Newberg, Oregon 97132
                                                                                                           VIA Hand Delivery
Attention:           Michael G. Gunn
                     Attorney at Law

Subject:             Water Supply and Stormwater Management for Re-Zoning Application
               _     Supplemental Information
                     Chehalem Creek Properties/Edwards, Carter, Fowler
                     Yamhill County, Oregon
                                    ’
                                H
Dear Mr. Gunn:

I have conducted a supplemental analysis of water supply availability to reflect the possibility -
of nine (9) new parcels being developed on the subject property. The original analysis
considered         that seven new                 parcels,   four more    than the current             configuration,    would    be -
developed under          a VLDR-2.5                  zoning.     The subject property, and related area thereto, is
located in Township 3 South, Range 3 West, Sections 24 and 25; and Township 3 South,
Range      2 West,      Section               19, Willamette        baseline   and    meridian.           The   property    covers
approximately 25 acres.

EnviroLogic Resources,                      Inc., was retained by Messrs.            Edwards,          Carter, and Fowlef,       aka
-Chehalem Creek Properties, to provide an expert opinion regarding whether the property will
support      water     supply               and    stormwater      management        undef       the    proposed     new    zoning
designation. Currently, there are three residences on the property. For purposes of evaluating
water supply and stormwater matters, six new residences are considered added to the property
in this analysis.

Ground water is an important source of water for populations in Yamhill and nearby counties.
In response to pressures on the ground-water supply in rural residential areas, Marion County
promulgated an ordinance (Chapter 181 of the Marion County Rural Zoning Ordinance)
designed to guide the evaluation of ground-water availability in partition and subdivision
applications. As such, this ordinance is a relevant and appropriate guidance for the evaluation
presented in this letter.            :

The ground-water availability calculation is based on determining the amount of recharge the
target aquifer receives, and comparing the recharge to the projected amount that will be
consumptively used.     The recharge is calculated for the Study Area, as defined in the

8948 SW Barbur Blyd #56, Portland, Oregon                      97219-4047 (503)768-5121 fax (503) 768-5122
www.h2ogeo.com                          :
                                                                ry

                       oe                                            ead
                                                                      EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

Mr. Michael G. Gunn.                                                                         ;
May 15, 2001                                                                 FILA   74   nce Lo7ld
Page 2

ordinance (the area within /4-mile of the property boundary), from annual precipitation over
the area, Usage is based on the number of parcels in Study Area and a rate set in the
ordinance (525 gallons per day), plus the amount of water withdrawals authorized by water
"tights and permits.

Stormwater management will be addressed in terms of a projected amount of new impervious
area as a result of complete development of the property under the proposed zoning change.

GROUND-WATER RECHARGE AND USAGE

Recharge to the ground-water system occurs through direct infiltration of precipitation and
irrigation water, and from effluent from septic systems. Recharge enters the Columbia River
Basalt Group aquifer system by the release of water from storage in the saturated alluvial
sediments and from infiltration of rainfall in uplands areas.

The ground-water budget for the Study Area is evaluated by multiplying the mean annual
precipitation by an average annual recharge rate. The result is then applied over the area of
the Study Area to calculate the recharge from precipitation in acre-feet per year. Additionally, -
recharge from effluent from septic systems is calculated based on a per capita rate and the
number of parcels in the Study Area (Snyder and others, 1994). These are added together to
develop a volume of Total Recharge for the Study Area. Discharge is based on the number of
parcels and an assumed consumption per parcel added to the permitted ground-water use in
the Study Area.                                                                      ‘

Figure 1 shows a tax lot map with an outline of the Study Area used for the calculations. The
Study Area includes the area of parcels that intersect a line Y%-mile from the property
boundary. Precipitation recharge over the 477.2—acre area amounts to 266.34 acre-feet per
year. Another 10.65 acre-feet per year recharges from water released from septic systems, for
a total of 276.99 acre-feet of recharge.     Irrigation recharge is not considered in these
calculations.

Discharge amounts to 225.37 acre-feet, including permitted ground-water use and the new
potential parcels in the proposed zone change. Total discharge is 81 percent of total recharge.
If septic recharge is disregarded, the total discharge becomes 85 percent of precipitation
recharge. The ground-water budget calculations are presented on Table 1.

These values are based on a recharge rate of 16% of annual precipitation (NGS, 1997). While
a number of factors can influence the average annual recharge rate (estimates range from 0.5%
to 16%    in Marion County),   16%   is considered by NGS    to be a       reliable estimate for the
Columbia River Basalt Group when overlaid by a saturated alluvial aquifer. Site-specific
hydrogeologic conditions may cause the average annual recharge rate in an area to deviate
                        —                                       weg         .
                            7                                    EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

May 15 200 F Gunn.                                                      cin TL ee 879
Page 3

from this value, but collection of data to make this kind of analysis is unwarranted for this
proposed zone change.

‘Is there enough water to support the proposed zone change? Guidance from Marion County
 indicates that a proposed partition or subdivision may proceed if the amount of recharge used
 is less than 90 percent.      Based on the scope of analysis included in this evaluation,
 EnviroLogic Resources believes that sufficient ground-water supplies are available without
 causing an adverse impact on surrounding properties. The proposed zone change potentially
 adds six households to the Study Area. Long-term water-level trends are not declining in a
 nearby state observation well. No wells in the Study Area have been deepened, according to
WROD records, indicating that there has not been an historic problem with water levels. While
other areas of the County may have experienced water level declines as discussed by the City
of Newberg, these conditions do not appear to predominate in the study area, based available
records.                 !

In EnviroLogic Resources’ opinion, based on a reasonable degree of scientific certainty,
this area will support a water supply for nine residences without adversely affecting the
surrounding properties.

STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

Six new residences and a roadway may potentially be added to the property as a result of
development in accordance with the proposed zone change. Each new residence may add up
to 2,500 square feet of new impervious area to the property, including a 16 feet by 30 feet
driveway. This amounts to 15,000 square feet of new impervious area for residences. New
roadway is assumed to be constructed for a linear distance of approximately 660 feet. If this
road is assumed to be 16 feet wide, it will add another 10,000 square feet of impervious area
to the property. _ The additional 25,000 square feet of impervious area amounts to
approximately 2 percent of the total property area. Stormwater runoff from this new
impervious area can be sufficiently managed on the property.    Stormwater can be adequately
managed on the property with an eventual exit point to Harvey Creek without adverse impact
to surrounding properties,

In EnviroLogic Resources’ opinion, based on a reasonable degree of scientific certainty,
this arca will support a stormwater management          system for nine residences without
adverse impact to surrounding properties.

CLOSING COMMENTS

The information collected during the preparation of this evaluation describes the ground-water
and stormwater conditions in the Study Area sufficiently to draw the conclusions presented
                                     Natl”                                 oY
                                     ~                                      ‘EnviroLogic Resources, Inc.

      Mr. Michael G. Gunn.                                                                   mee
      May 15, 2001                                                               FILa   7A   PACE 1576
      Page 4

      within reasonable scientific certainties. While the availability of new and more quantitative
      information could modify the calculations, collection of these data does not appear to be
      warranted.
’ '

      Please call me at (503)768-5121 if you have any questions or comments.

      Sincerely,

      cc:

      clicnts/chehalemecreekproperties/mgg05 150 iwater.doc

      ATTACHMENTS

      Table 1               Ground-Water Recharge and Usage Calculations
      Figure 1              Study Area
                                 wt
       None!

                                       rue   U4 ce LOTT   |

DEMONSTRABLE NEED AND AVAILABLE PROPERTIES
                 ANALYSIS
                          Neen                                                      we           TA     ct LOIS

COLDWCLL                                                                                        RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE
BANKGCR ©]                                                                                             2501 PORTLAND RD.
                                                                                                        NEWBERG, OR 97132
                                                                                                         BUS. (503) 538-0468
PROFESSIONAL                                                                                             FAX (503) 537-0366
     GROUP

February     14, 2001

Mr, Michael Gunn, Attorney
P. O. Box 1046
Newberg, OR 97132

Re: Edwards, Carter, zone change

Dear Sir,

I have been a resident of Yamhill County since 1968. Lam a graduate of Newberg High School and
George Fox University. I obtained my real estate license in 1983 and Brokers license in 1986. Currently I
am a Designated Broker for Coldwell Banker Professional Group. 1 am also President of Coyote Homes
Inc., a building and development company.

Throughout the last several years, we have developed, built homes, sold lots and homes in the VLDR 2
1/2 acre zone. We have found the greatest source of buyers for the VLDR 2 1/2 acre zoned property, tend
to have the following characteristics: they are residents of Yarnhill County - approx. 60 % of the time.
They are looking for a site which provides room for not only their home, but, outbuildings, shops, elbow
room, ect,                                                                                                         ‘

We have found that the VLDR 2 1/2 zone fills this need perfectly. The VLDR 1 zone tends to attract
buyers interested in building estate type homes. They tend to have community water systems duc to the
fact it is difficult to site a well and drain field, house and backup drain field on a one acre site.   Some
recent examples of VLDR 1 acre developments are Aspen Estates and Red Hills Estates in the Newberg
and Dundee area. These neighborhoods are upper end properties with no farm type animals and few
detached garages or other outbuildings. VLDR 5 acre zoned land generally attracts buyers who are more
than weekend farmer types, 5+ acre lots tend to require more time and larger equipment.

The VLDR 2 1/2 zone is a perfect fit for the population intcrested in 4-H, FFA, ECT.         The sites are large
enough for these uses, yet small enough to maintain on the weekends. Currently we are facing a shortage
of VLDR 2 1/2 acre zoned property in the study arca, While the county map shows there are 59
undeveloped lots in the study area, our site survey conducted February 10, 2001, shows there are 21
undeveloped lots in the study area, but after personally examining the study arca, I have found a total of
23.

After examining the sites in the study area, realistically, there are only 13 vacant sites which could be
available for homes. Of these 13 lots, it appears that only 1 is currently for sale, Accourding to the
Realtors Multipte listing Service, in the last year, five parcels in the study area have been available for sale
and have sold to buyers currently building or planning to build.

As the above indicates, it appears there is a severe shortage of lend in the VLDR 2 1/2 acre zone in the
study area. To maintain a healthy economic outlook, it is important to increase supply to a level which
will be closer in meeting demand levels. As previously indicated, 60% of the VLDR 2 1/2 acre property

                                      Each Office Is independently Owned And Operated                                  Hand
                          eter!                                               er            FILE   7A      PACE 15 79

buyers are local Yamhill County residents.    These people generally have smaller homes to sale during the
move up process, Thus, the trickle down effect impacts more than just this type of zone. Currently the
need for VLDR 2 1/2 acre zone far exceeds the supply.

The subject site is a near perfect fit for being zoned VLDR 2 1/2. It adjoins this zone already so it will
have no negative impact on surrounding properties. The property has not been utilized for several years.
It is not prime agriculture land, because of its size, location and soil type. This zone change will actually
conform the property into the current neighborhood.

We find that when a property is developed in a similar manner as the surrounding properties, it stabilizes
value and can even increase value. Development generally creates new improvements to higher code
Jevels and eliminates the unknown aspect of “what will happen in that field?”

Therefore, I believe this site meets the criteria for the proposed zone change and will have no negative
effect on surrounding propertics.

Marc Willcuts
Broker
                                                            a               vu TA er 580

 VLDR 2 1/2 acre zoned land in study area considered as available inventory

 1)   Tax lot 3313 - 2501:            High water table, wetland vegetation, development
                                      potential.
2)    Tax lot 3313 - 2502:            High water table, wetland vegetation, development
                                      potential.
3)    Tax lot 3313 - 2900:            High waicr table, wetland vegetation, development
                                      potential.
4)    Tax lot 3313 - 3601:            High water table, wetland vegetation, development
                                      potential.
5)    Tax lot 3313 - 3602:            High water table, wetland vegetation, development
                                      potential.

6)    Tax lot 3323 - 600:             14,96 acres divided with stream.   Slopes, however
                                      this site is buildable,
1     Tax lot 3323 - 3100:            Buildable site.

8)    Tax lot 3324 - 1405:            Buiidable site, owned by neighbor and used for
                                      pasture.
9)    Tax lot 3324AD - 1000:          Buildable, owned by neighbor and used for pasture.

10)   Tax lot 3325   - 591;           Buildable 1.97 acre site,
1D    Tax lot 3325   - 2200:          Buildable, limited access,
12)   Tax lot 3325   - 2600:          Buildable, limited access.
13)   Tax lot 3325   - 2601:          Buildabie, limited access.
                      ee!                                  “—              rie CL mec
                                                                                    L B84

VLDR 2 1/2 acre zoned land in study area which should not be considered as
                           available inventory

1)    Tax lot 3230CB - 4000:         This lot is extremely steep, very small building pad
                                     if any, Not typical VLDR 2 1/2. Property has been
                                     for sale for 4 years.
2)    Tax lot 3230CB - 4200:         This lot is extremely steep, stall building pad if any.
                  .                  Not typical VLDR 2 1/2. Property has been for sale
                                     for 4 years.
3)    Tax lot 3230CB - 4500;         Sold - construction starting.

4)    Tax lot 3323 - 3301:           Shop has been built, home construction to start soon,

5)    Tax lot 3324 - 1401:           Recently partitioned and purchased.    Home to be
                                     built soon.
6)    Tax lot 3324 - 4600:           Recently developed.
7)    Tax lot 3324 - 4602:           Recently developed.
8)    Tax lot 3324 - 7600:           Recently partitioned and sold.   Home to be built.
 9)   Tax lot 3324 - 7601:           Recently partitioned and sold. Home to be built.
10)   Tax lot 3219 - 800:            This lot is steep with level area appearing to be in
                                     flood plain.
    Me                         rue        TA vee 582

HEAVY INDUSTRIAL ZONING PERMITTED USAGE
                ANALYSIS
                              a!                                            ~      sue TA no 1583

    HI -Zoned Property - 3324-7906

    Site Assessment for General Industrial Use:

Highway Access- egress and ingress from US Hwy 99W by easement.
Acreage:    2,13 acres
    Water Service:         On-site well, 35gpin
    Sewer Service:         On-site standard system, installed under County Permit, located and
                           authorized by lease.

Previous uses:                     Auto wrecking yard; non-contained operations dating from the
                                    1960's.
Present uses:              RV storage, Body Building Shop - exercise club.

Heavy Industrial Developmental Constraints:

e          Adequate access at two points to the transportation arterial, and ability to upgrade.
           Access to the site is by easement, additional truck traffic would result in significant costs
           in planning and implementation of elements for industrial related transport movements
           fram the site onto the arterial.
    .      Proximity to residential development is too close for noxious or persistent plant
           emissions, proximity to Duck Pond Cellars precludes asphalt batch plants and size of
           property limits other rock resource activities, allowed in the zone by Similar Use
           provisions,
.          No rail access, requires product, agricultural or otherwise to be handled too many time to
           be efficient in terms of cost or energy.
    .      Weilands and natural constraints exist on-site, Water usage and wastewater discharge
           are issues of expansion for any change of use from the present use pattern of the property.
           The industrial site is isolated, accessed by shared easement (single point), limited access to
           the arterial, surrounded by property under separate and controlling ownership of the
           access and wastewater easement. Plan designation to Rural Residential in the County
           comprehensive plan speaks more broadly to the future use of the site as a local commercial
           zone, or suburban homesite and park location.
.          Area development is mixed - a dominant niche is provided by Duck Pond Cellars, a
           successful Oregon Winery. A highway commercial development, generating truck traffic
           by bulk sales of yard materials is located at the westerly end of the one-way corridor. A
           light industrial area adjoins the parent tract to the east; it is presently in use as a small shop
           with storage for old equipment.     Adjoining the LI zoned tract is the Someplace Else
           Tavern, the surrounding area is in rural residential and storage facilities within the
           additional area zoned LL. Economic use of the HI zoned property, in the future, would
           best be served by a fit within the present development pattern of the sub area of its
           location.
.          Socio-economics - the communities of Newberg and Dundee have identified the need to
           retain “separate identities” and to utilize the Hwy 99W corridor between them as the
           vehicle for doing so, A major highway bypass is an identified need of the area. Major
                  7                                           ne Th eA 84
S9W improvements are under construction in Newberg, to expand lanes.for west bound
highway traffic; not a matter of small concern. to those that purchased commercial
property on the margins of the Newberg Couplet, the preferred alternative to the areas
traffic congestion problem Its unlikely, given the level of modernization investment by
ODOT, that a bypass, utiless developed as a toil limited access road is feasible in this
planning cycle, The communities share a mutual growth management issue, the area is
developing an increasing awareness of its proximity to other areas of development
interests, wineries continue to open and expand, the measure is how it is helping other
efforts at local valtie added processing of agricultural products. Industrial sitings in the
area have met with substantial community opposition. The county was not supportive of
the use of the Strategic Investment Plan, a state sponsored program, in developing a site
specific request and application for consideration. New heavy industrial development of
any natute would, in all probability, be opposed by the communities invested in the area.
Conclusion; A poor site to use for any heavy industrial application. Key issues for
                expansion or development to new uses will involve local, state and federal
               agencies in permitting, especially for a rural HI designated site adjoining an
               urbanized area. Local opposition, would in alf likelihood be high. The best
               use of the site, may be in a local commercial designation, consistent with
                present operations,