Vol 100
                                          2271                                         “OP

        BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                  SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm)
use to LI, Light/General Industrial, Docket Z-05-07, Tax Lot 5405-1202,        )      Ordinance 821
Applicants Philip and Judith Darling, and Declaring an Emergency               )

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the “Board”)
sat for the transaction of county business on November 20, 2007, Commissioners Kathy George,
Mary P. Stern and Leslie Lewis being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD              that Philip and Judith Darling, Co-Trustees of the
Darling Living Trust, requested approval of a zone change from EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use to LI
Light/General Industrial, and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard at a duly noticed public
hearing October 4, 2007 before the Planning Commission, which approved the application by a vote
of 5 to 2, and no appeal was filed. NOW, THEREFORE,

             IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated
herein. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill
County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

          DONE this 20" day of November, 2007, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
JAN COLEMAN                                 Yack. Le
County Clerk                               in,       J        ()       KATHY GEORGE

Dept                      RSE               missionet                  MARY P. STERN
APPROVASED
         TO               FORMAT0       Se |e            MX   (Vu,
       We       Vs                     Cofimissioner     ~             LESLIE LEWIS
Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                               Ord.    821   Darling

                                                                                      Bo-0F-[010
                                                   Vol 100
                                                   2272

EXHIBIT “A” FINDINGS:

DOCKET:                         Z-05-07

REQUEST:                        Approval of a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use district
                                to LI, Light/General Industrial district.

APPLICANT:                      Catherine Wright representing Philip and Judith Darling, Co-
                                Trustees of the Darling Living Trust

TAX LOT:                        5405-1202

LOCATION:                       Approximately 1,000 feet southeast of the intersection of Old
                                Station Road and Highway 99W, McMinnville

REVIEW CRITERIA:                Sections 402, 702 and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                                Ordinance; the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and
                                Policies. Section 904, the Limited Use Overlay zone may also be
                                applied.

A.   Background Facts:

1.   Property size: 9.4 acres

2.   Access: The parcel has frontage on Old Station Road and Highway 99W. Any new road
     approaches onto the state highway will require a permit from ODOT. In addition, any new
     road approaches onto the county road will require a road approach permit from Yamhill
     County.

3.   On-site Land Use: The property is an undeveloped field that appears to be farmed.

4,   Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: To the south and on the west side of Highway 99W the
     zoning is LI. Uses include farm and tractor equipment sales, mini-storage and RV storage.
     To the east, west and north the zoning is EF-80. There is a dwelling on the small lot to the
     north and two dwellings to the east. There is an auto wrecking yard operating as a
     nonconforming use on the lot to the northwest. The South Yamhill River is 300 - 400 feet
     to the north.

5.   Water: A well would be required.

6.   Sewage Disposal: An on-site septic system would be required.

7.   Fire Protection: McMinnville Rural Fire District

                                                                             Ord.   821   Darling
                                                                                          B-.04-(010
                                     Vol 100
                                     2273

Previous Actions: The property has a Comprehensive Plan designation of Light Industrial,
and was excepted from applicable Statewide Planning Goals as part of plan
acknowledgment in 1979.

An application for a zone change from EF-40 to LI on 15 acres, including the subject
parcel, was submitted in 1978 (Docket Z-156-78). The Planning Commission denied the
request, primarily on the basis that no public need was shown and that no willing buyer
was available to specify a proposed use, The Board of Commissioners subsequently
approved the zone change. The Board’s decision was appealed to LCDC, who reversed the
county decision. The LCDC decision was upheld by the Court of Appeals. Ultimately, the
Supreme Court denied the petition for review, and in 1981 the County repealed its previous
approval.

In 1987 a zone change from EF-40 to LI was approved on the southerly four acres of the
parcel, now lot 1203 (Docket Z-2-87). This 4+ acres was divided from the original parcel
in 1990 (P-17-90). That partition also divided off the 3.7 acres on the north side of Old
Station Road (lot 1201), leaving lot 1202 with 9.4 acres.

In 1998 a zone change from EF-80 to LI was applied for on the subject parcel (Docket Z-
03-98). The request was denied by the Planning Commission by a vote of 7 to 0. The
Planning Commission denied the request, partly because there was no specific use
proposed.

Description of Proposal: The applicant requests approval for a zone change to Light
Industrial. No specific use for the property has been proposed. The application does state
that “The types of businesses likely within this development include storage facilities and
light manufacturing.” As indicated in Finding A.8, there have been two requests filed to
rezone this property from Exclusive Farm use to Light Industrial use. Both requests appear
to have been denied in large part because the intended use of the property was not
specified.

Zone Change Review Criteria and Analysis

The zone change must comply with the standards and criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02.
These provisions are:

A       The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies and any other applicable
       provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

B.      There is an existing, demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
        requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
        economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
        the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
        uses allowed by the zone.

                                                                     Ord.   821   Darling
                                          Vol 100
                                          2274

C      The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
       density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
       occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
       utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
       district.

D.     Other lands in the County already designated for the proposed uses are either
       unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size or
       other factors.

E.      The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR’s)
       for exceptions, if applicable.

Regarding criterion (A) above, in 1979 the property was plan designated Industrial. At that
time an exception to Goals 3 (Agriculture) and 4 (Forestry) were taken. Since the property
is in an exception area, Comprehensive Plan goals and policies related to agricultural and
forest lands are not applicable. Other Plan goals and policies which may be pertinent are:

       Policy LH.1.h. Established industrial areas may be extended and new industrial
       areas designated by plan amendment where development trends warrant such
       extension or designation and full urban services are extended into the area, if
       appropriate, and the extension or designation of land use and services is consistent
       with all other goals and policies of the comprehensive plan.

There is an established industrial area adjacent to the south and across the highway.   This
area has gradually built up over the years. The four acre parcel to the south was rezoned in
1987, so the development trend is towards adding additional industrial uses to the area.
The extension of urban services is not proposed or required.

Policy HLA.I1j.    Yamhill county will require new development to:

        Db        Limit access points on highways designated as arterials when alternative
        access points are feasible.

        2)     Provide a frontage setback requirement of 50 feet from the public right-of-
        way of all designated arterials within the county for commercial and industrial
        development; and

        3)        Minimize direct access points onto arterial right-of-ways by encouraging
        the utilization af common driveways.

Highway 99W south of McMinnville is designated a minor arterial in the Yamhill County
Transportation System Plan. Tax Lot 5405-1202 has frontage on Old Station Road as well
as the highway. This Plan policy requires access to the highway to be limited in favor of

                                                                      Ord.   821   Darling
                                              Vol 100
                                              2275

access from Old Station Road. ODOT had indicated in response to the 1998 attempt to
rezone this parcel that no direct access to the highway will be permitted. ODOT has not
yet responded to the referral. A condition during any future site design review will require
that access to the site be from Old Station Road unless ODOT access approval is granted,
and that the required 50 foot setback from the highway right-of-way be provided.

The difficulty with the remainder of the goals and polices addressed in the application is
that the applicant does not indicate what uses are planned for the property. It is somewhat
understandable as the applicant cannot offer LI zoned property that he does not have and
businesses cannot commit since they do not know if the rezoning will occur. However, it
is not possible to address the goals and policies without knowing more specifically the uses
that will occur on-site. For example, for “Policy M: The County will encourage industrial
development which bases its products on renewable and indigenous raw materials.” The
application contained the following response:

          “At this stage, it is not clear exactly the types of uses which will take place on this
          property, but they are likely to be storage facilities, warehouses and light
          manufacturing. This policy may be addressed at a future date when development
          gets under way.” (Underline added.)

Unfortunately, in order to have a zone change approved the goals and policies must be
addressed before the approval is granted; addressing them in the future is not an option.

Criterion (B) requires a finding that there is an existing, demonstrable need for the uses
allowed in a light industrial zone. The applicant has submitted e-mails from Beaver Pallet
LLC and Amity Self Storage, both owned by John Eshleman, who expressed interest in
additional light industrial zoned property. In addition the application contains an e-mail
from Jeffery A Pomeroy of Team Pomeroy Moving and Storage. He also expressed
interest in leasing a 15,000 square foot warehouse for his business, demonstrating a market
demand.     The availability and suitability of other Industrial zoned lands will be discussed
in Finding B.6.

Regarding criterion (C), the surrounding land uses are primarily industrial, with mini-
storage units and car sales on the parcel adjacent to the south, an auto wrecking yard on the
parcel adjacent to the northwest, and various industrial uses, metalworking, RV storage and
farm equipment dealers across Highway 99W.              There is one vacant parcel that appears to
be for sale. The parcel appears to be approximately two acres in size. To address this
criterion the application states in part, “The proposed development of this parcel will be
compatible with those existing (neighboring) uses.” The question is what development
proposal? The application does not contain any specific development proposal. Some
light industrial development would be compatible with existing uses and some may not be
compatible.

                                                                            Ord.   821   Darling
                                           Vol 100
                                           2276

There are residential and farm uses to the north and east of the subject parcel. Old Station
Road separates the subject parcel from these residences.    Rezoning lot 1202 would have
little additional impact to these residences than is caused by the industrial uses already
occurring on lots 1203 and 1300.

Regarding the availability of utilities and services, an on-site well and septic system is
proposed. Other utilities likely to be needed are available to the site. Fire service is
available, although the McMinnville Fire District has indicated that an on-site water supply
will be required.    This may involve construction of a pond or other water storage structure
on the parcel.

Criterion (D) requires the consideration of whether there are other available lands in the
county that are zoned for light industrial uses. Location, size and suitability are factors that
may be considered. Tax Lot 5405-1202 is 9 acres is size, is adjacent to a highway, and is
located between McMinnville and Amity. The applicant has submitted a search of
commercial and industrial land for sale in Yamhill County. The information submitted is
Exhibit E of the application. The Land Use Board of Appeals has previously ruled that
properties on the market for sale at any give time is at best an indirect measure of the need
or market demand for such properties and can not be exclusively used to show these other
light industrial lots are not “available” to satisfy the need.

Regarding criterion (E), an exception to Goals 3 and 4 is not required. The area between
Old Station Road, the railroad tracks, and the South Yamhill River was given a
Comprehensive Plan designation of Light Industrial in 1979, and was excepted from State
Planning Goals 3 and 4 at that time. Gary Fish with the Department of Land Conservation
and Development has written a letter, dated September 11, 2007, stating that either an
exception to Goal 14 should be required or the industrial uses should be limited to 35,000
square feet. The reasoning behind these comments are found near the bottom of the first
page which states:

        “The goal states that: “In unincorporated communities outside urban growth
        boundaries counties may approve uses, public facilities and services more intensive
        than allowed on rural lands by Goal 11 and 14...” Industrial uses in rural
        unincorporated communities are limited to 40,000 square feet of building floor
        space.

        The department and the Commission have approved rural industrial zones and uses
        as small scale, low impact in other counties as complying with Goal 14 that apply a
        35,000 square foot of floor space maximum building size provision for new
        industrial uses.”

The application does not contain a request for a Goal 14 exception so, based on DLCD’s
interpretation, any approval would need to have a 35,000 square foot limitation on building
floor area.

                                                                       Ord.   821   Darling
                                         Vol 100
                                         2277

Interestingly, the present LI zone allows the minimum parcel size for any new use to be
20,000 square feet and a parcel coverage standard of up to 30 percent. Therefore, with the
existing limitations, if the zone change were approved, the applicant could divide the
property into smaller lots. A lot of approximately 2.67 acres could be created that would
allow the 35,000 square foot building limitation proposed by DLCD. Lots smaller than
2.67 acres would not allow over 35,000 square foot building limitations without a variance.

Limited Use Overlay Provisions

The purpose of the Limited Use Overlay District is to limit permitted use(s) and activities
in a specific location to only those uses and activities which are justified and approved
through a Comprehensive Plan Amendment or a zone change. The application does not
exactly specify what uses are being requested. The application does suggest a range of
uses. For example, near the bottom of page 2 of the zone change criteria it states, “The
types of businesses likely within this development include storage facilities and light
manufacturing.” The applicant’s arguments seem to support these uses but are not aimed
at supporting other activities allowed in the zone. For example, the manufacturing of
mobile homes is listed as a permitted use in the LI zone but the findings do not describe
how this would be compatible.     Limiting the uses to RV storage and mini-storage would
be appropriate because those are uses permitted in the LI zone. As for the manufacturing
uses, these are listed in the LI zone and can be expanded through the similar use process.      It
is not clear as to whether the applicant’s use of the phase “light manufacturing” is intended
to include all of these manufacturing uses. A limited use overlay zone should either be
applied to limit the use to what is requested or the applicant should submit justification
addressing every permitted and conditional use listed in the LI zone. Similarly, the
application should have either an exception to Goal 14 or a 35,000 square foot limitation
on buildings located on each parcel created from the subject property.

Other Ordinance Considerations

Site design review is required for any development in a L] district. Since the applicant is
not presently proposing any use it is not possible to do a site design review at this time.
Setbacks, landscaping, signs, building size and location, parking, access, and other
requirements of the YCZO will be reviewed as part of the site design review.

Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis

The September 25, 2007 letter from Gary Fish, DLCD identified the provisions of the
Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, as being required to be addressed.
OAR 660-12-0060 states:

()     Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
       regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that

                                                                      Ord.   821   Darling
                                                       Vol 100
                                                       2278

                allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of
                service of the facility.
                (Underline added)

2.     As noted above, amendments to functional plans, comprehensive plans, or land use
       regulation amendments are required to address OAR 660-12-0060. This application is not
       for a plan amendment but rather for a zone change. The property was previously plan
       designated industrial and that designation was acknowledged by the State. Therefore, this
       administrative rules does not need to be addressed.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.     The request complies with Subsection 1208.02(A) because the proposed zone change is
       consistent with Comprehensive Pian goals and policies related to industrial development,
       and the existing Comprehensive Plan designation of Light Industrial.

2.     The request complies with Subsection 1208.02(B) because the applicant has submitted
       letters from two separate parties who are interested in establishing uses on the property if
       the zone change is approved, indicating that there is a market demand for industrial
       property.

3.     The request complies with Subsection 1208.02(C) The proposed zone change is
       appropriate considering the surrounding industrial uses. The development pattern in the
       area has seen a gradual increase in the number of businesses on adjacent properties, and
       there is little vacant industrially-zoned land available.

4.     The request complies with Subsection 1208.02(D) because Tax Lot 5405-1202 is better
       suited to industrial development than other available properties that are zoned for light
       industrial uses because of parcel size and the proximity of other adjacent industrial uses.

5.     The request can be made consistent with Subsection 1208.02(E) because, with application
       of a limited use overlay zone, a goal exception is not required.

DECISION

This request for a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm use to LI, Light Industrial use was
approved by a vote of 5 to 2, and not appealed, and thus the approval is now final. The approval of.
the zone change is with a limited use overlay zone which contains the following limits and
requirements:

1.     The access permit from ODOT must be obtained prior to any development of the property.

2.     The parcel and every parcel created from Tax Lot 5405-1202 shall be limited to no more
       than 35,000 square feet of building area per parcel.

                                                                              Ord.   821   Darling
                                               Val 100
                                               2279

      The traffic generated from the uses on Tax Lot 5405-1202 or parcel created from this tax
      lot shall be a total of no more than 210 daily trips. Should the trip cap be exceeded, the
      owner of Tax Lot 5405-1202, or owners of the resulting parcels, shall be required to apply
      for and obtain an updated approach road permit and install any necessary mitigation
      measures pursuant to the change of use provisions of OAR 734-051.

      The uses are limited to the following:

             A.      Light industrial manufacturing of items such as medical and dental
                     equipment, small machine parts, small electronic instruments and pallet
                     manufacturing and repair.

             B.      RV and mini-storage facilities

             Cc.     Warehousing

             D.      Packaging or processing of locally produced fruits and nuts

             E,      Vehicle restoration

             F,      Parking semi-trucks

      The new road that crosses Tax Lot 5405-1202 and connects Old Station Road with
      Highway 99W shall be dedicated to the public and maintained by the owner of Tax Lot
      5405-1202, or owners of the resulting parcels.

      Any additional traffic mitigation measures with the intersection onto Highway 99W shall
      be the responsibility of the owner of Tax Lot 5405-1202, or owners of the resulting parcels.

End

                                                                           Ord.    821   Darling
                                                                              G.0- 0F-(010