Chapter 4.15: Yamhill County Drug Code  Page 1 of 5

TITLE 4: PUBLIC PEACE, MORALS, AND WELFARE

Chapter 4.15: Yamhill County Drug Code

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Title
4.15.01 DEFINITIONS
4.15.02 FACTORS CONSIDERED IN DETERMINING PARAPHERNALIA
4.15.03 OFFENSES AND PENALTIES; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE
4.15.04 NUISANCE, SEIZURE OF PARAPHERNALIA
4.15.05 INFRACTION PROCEDURE; JURISDICTION; VENUE; PROSECUTION
4.15.06 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

4.15.01 Definitions.
a) A “controlled substance” means a drug or its immediate precursor classified in Schedules I through V under
the Federal Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. Sections 811 to 812, as modified under ORS 475.035. For
purposes of this ordinance, a “controlled substance” also includes marijuana as defined in this section.
b) “Deliver” or “delivery” means the actual, constructive, or attempted transfer, other than by administering or
dispensing, from one person to another of a  controlled substance, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
c) The term “drug paraphernalia” means all equipment, products, and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of the laws of this state. It includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing or
harvesting of any species of plant which is a  controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived;
(ii) Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, or preparing controlled substances;
(iii) Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in increasing the potency of any
species of plant which is a controlled substance;
(iv) Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed, for use in weighing or measuring controlled
substances;
(v) Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in weighing or measuring controlled
substances;
Chapter 4.15: Yamhill County Drug Code  Page 2 of 5
(vi) Diluents and adulterants such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose,
used, intended for use, or designed for use in cutting controlled substances;
(vii) Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for use in removing twigs and seeds
from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining, marijuana;
(viii) Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used, intended for use, or designed for use
in compounding controlled substances;
(ix) Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended for  use, or designed for use in
packaging small quantities of controlled substances;
(x) Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed for  use in storing or concealing
controlled substances;
(xi) Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
parenterally injecting controlled substances into the human body;
(xii) Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting inhaling or otherwise introducing
marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body such as:
1. Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes wit h or without screens,
permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
2. Water pipes;
3. Carburetion tubes, pipes, devices or masks;
4. Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material such as marijuana cigarette, that
has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
5. Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
6. Chamber pipes;
7. Electric pipes;
8. Air-driver pipes;
9. Chillums;
10. Bongs;
11. Ice pipes and chillers.
d) “Marijuana” means all parts of the plant Cannabis family Moraceae, whether growing or not; the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the plant or its resin. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin e xtracted therefrom), fiber oil, or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
e) “OMMA” means the Oregon Medical Marijuana Act ( “the Act”) of 1998 as approved by the voters of the
State of Oregon as Ballot Measure 67 on Novem ber 3, 1997, or the Act as it may be subsequently amended
by the People or the Legislature.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 594 eff 09/27/95; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 666 eff 01/28/99]

4.15.02 Factors Considered in  Determining Paraphernalia . In determining whether an object is drug
paraphernalia, a court or other authority shall consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors, the
following:
a) Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object concerning its use;
b) Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of the object, under any municipal, state, tribal
or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
c) The proximity of the object in time and space to a direct violation of this  chapter of the State Uniform
Controlled Substances Act;
d) The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
e) The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
f) Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it
to persons whom he knows intends to use the object to facilitate a violation of municipal or state law; the
innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a violation of this law or state law shall not
prevent a finding that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
Chapter 4.15: Yamhill County Drug Code  Page 3 of 5
g) Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its use;
h) Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict its use;
i) National and local advertising concerning its use;
j) The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
k) Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the
community, such as a licensed distributor or dealer or tobacco products;
l) Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object(s) to the total sales of the business
enterprise;
m) The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the community;
n) Expert testimony concerning its use.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 594 eff 09/27/95]

4.15.03 Offenses and Penalties; Affirmative Defense.
a) Possession of Drug Paraphernalia. It is unlawful within the unincorporated area of Yamhill County or within
the city limits of any city whose governing body has consented to the application of this ordinance for any
person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance unless the
controlled substance is possessed under prescription of a licensed medical practitioner authorized to prescribe
or dispense drugs in the State of Oregon. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of an infraction
and upon conviction may be fined not more than $500. Upon conviction, a law enforcement agency shall
destroy any drug paraphernalia seized as evidence to support the conviction.
b) M
anufacture or Delivery of Drug Paraphernalia. It is unlawful within the unincorporated area of Yamhill
County or within the city limits of any city whose governing body has consented to the application of this
ordinance for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with intent to deliver drug
paraphernalia, knowing that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance unless the controlled
substance is possessed under prescription of a licensed medical practitioner authorized to prescribe or dispense
drugs in the State of Oregon. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of an infraction and upon
conviction may be fined not more than $500. Upon conviction, a law enforcement  agency shall destroy any
drug paraphernalia seized as evidence to support the conviction.
c) A
dvertisement of Drug Paraphernalia . It is unlawful within the unincorporated area of Yamhill County or
within the city limits of any city whose governing body has consented to the application of this ordinance for
any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or other publication any advertisement, knowing
that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended
for use as dru g paraphernalia. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty of an infraction and upon
conviction may be fined not more than $500.
d) P
ossession of Marijuana in County Park or within 1,000 Feet of County Park. Possession of Marijuana in
County Park or within 1,000 Feet of County Park. It is unlawful within the unincorporated area of Yamhill
County or within the city limits of any city whose governing body has consented to the application of this
ordinance for an y person to possess less than one avoirdupois ounce of marijuana within a county park or
within 1,000 feet from the boundary of any county park. A “ county park” is any park owned or leased by
Yamhill County, Oregon and designated as a county park. Any person who violates this subsection is guilty
of an infraction and upon conviction may be fined not more than $500.
e) P
ossession of Less than One Ounce of Marijuana Seed. It is unlawful within the unincorporated area of
Yamhill County or within the city limits o f any city whose governing body has consented to the application
of this ordinance for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess less than one avoirdupois ounce of seed
of marijuana.
f) A ffirmative Defenses.
Chapter 4.15: Yamhill County Drug Code  Page 4 of 5
(i) Except as provided in subsection ( v), it is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under Section
4.15.03(a) that the person possessing drug paraphernalia establishes that the drug paraphernalia
was used or intended to be used solely to:
1. ingest marijuana as a valid medical use in accordance with the OMMA, or where the defendant
is a “caregiver” within the meaning of the OMMA, or
2. the drug paraphernalia was possessed on behalf of a person entitled to use marijuana  in
accordance with the OMMA.
(ii) Except as provided in subsection ( v), it is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under Section
4.15.03(d) that the person possessing less than one ounce of marijuana in a county park possesses
the marijuana solely to:
1. be ingested as a valid medical use in accordance with the OMMA, or
2. where the defendant is a “ caregiver” within the meaning of the OMMA, the  marijuana was
possessed on behalf of a person entitled to use marijuana in accordance with the OMMA.
(iii) It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under Section 4.15.03(e) that the person possessing
the marijuana seeds possessed them solely to manufacture marijuana for a person entitled to ingest
marijuana as a valid medical use in accordance with the OMMA.
(iv) It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under Section 4.15.03(e) of this ordinance if the
marijuana seed is incapable of germination.
(v) No affirmative defense is available under this section if the person engaged in the prohibited
conduct in a public place as the term is defined in ORS 161.015(10), 1997 replacement part, or in
public view.
(vi) When an affirmative defense described in subsections ( i) or (ii) is raised at a trial, the defendant
has the burden of proving the defense by a preponderance of the evidence.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 594 eff 09/27/95; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 63 6 eff 02/04/1998; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 666 eff
01/28/99]

4.15.04 Nuisance, Seizure of Paraphernalia. Drug paraphernalia are declared to be a public nuisance. Any peace
officer shall summarily seize any such paraphernalia and shall deliver it to the sheriff who shall hold it subject to
the order of the court.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 594 eff 09/27/95]

4.15.05 Infraction Procedure; Jurisdiction; Venue; Prosecution.
a) Infraction Procedure. A violation of s ubsection (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 3 is an infraction. Citations
shall be issued and court procedures followed that are in accord with ORS 153.110 to 153.310 and 153.990,
1993 replacement part.
b) J urisdiction . Jurisdiction for infractions arising under this ordinance is  vested as provided in ORS 153.220,
1993 replacement part.
c) V enue . An action for an infraction arising under this ordinance shall be commenced in Yamhill County,
including any offense committed on any body of water located in or adjacent to Yamhill County.
d) P rosecution. At any trial involving an infraction arising under this ordinance only, the prosecuting attorney
may aid in preparing evidence and obtaining witnesses but shall not appear unless counsel for the defendant
appears. As used in this subsection, the  “prosecuting attorney” includes the district attorney, a city attorney,
or the county counsel.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 594 eff 09/27/95; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 636 eff 02/04/1998]

4.15.06 Severability Clause. All sections, subsections and paragraphs of this ordinance are severable. If any
section, subsection or paragraph is ruled invalid for any reason by the court of last resort, the other portions of
this ordinance shall be unaffected.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 594 eff 09/27/95]

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

Chapter 4.15: Yamhill County Drug Code  Page 5 of 5
Adopted via Ordinance No. 594 on 06/28/95, effective 09/27/95
 Amended via Ordinance No. 636 on 11/06/1997, effective 02/04/1998
 Amended via Ordinance No. 666 on 01/28/1999, effective 01/28/1999