Zoning Ordinance
Section 1008.00 Day Care Facilities
[Last amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

Standards and Requirements
Day care facilities shall be subject to the following minimum requirements:
A.  The proposed facility shall maintain all applicable licenses required by the
appropriate agencies for the use described in the application.

B.  All day care facilities shall be subject to Section 1101  for site design review.
Special considerations for this use are as follows:

1.  Compatibility in appearance with the surrounding area;

2.  Provision of usable on-site open space appropriate to the needs of the day
care persons; and

3.  Clearly defined property boundaries.

1008.02  Application Requirements.
In addition to the Type B application procedure set forth in Section 1301  and the
conditional use permit review criteria set forth in Section 1202 , an application for a day
care facility shall include the following:
A.  A description of the proposed use, including the maximum number of day care
persons to be served, the number of staff, and estimated days and hours of
operation; and

B.  A site plan showing existing or proposed structures and improvements, including
landscaping, play yards and parking areas, and the location of structures and
improvements on adjacent properties.

1008.03  Definitions.
DAY CARE FACILITY  - Any facility, as defined in ORS 657A.250 , that provides child
care to children in a place other than the child's home, with or without compensation,
except the home of a family day care provider. [Added 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

DAY NURSERY  - Any institution, establishment or place in which three or more
children not of common parentage, under the age of six years, are commonly received for
a period or periods not exceeding 12 hours for the purpose of being given board, care or
training apart from their parents or guardians for compensation or reward. [Added 7/9/98, Ord.
648]

FAMILY DAY CARE PROVIDER  - A child care provider who regularly provides
child care in the provider's home, in the family living quarters, for no more than three
children other than the person's own children, or for children from only one family other
than the person's own family. [Added 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page