Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 702-1

This section and related information is available at www.co.yamhill.or.us/plan/planning/planning.asp

SECTION 700 B INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

702. LIGHT/GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (LI)  [Last Amended 06/28/18; Ord. 906]

702.01 Purpose.

The purpose of the LI District is to provide for light and general industrial uses with similar service
needs within urban growth boundaries and in other locations which are or will be compatible with
adjacent urban development.  Such areas shall maintain high performance standards for light and
general industrial uses and shall coordinate site and building design through application of the site
design review process.

702.02 Permitted Uses.

In the LI District, the following uses shall be permitted subject to the standards and limitations set
forth in subsection 702.07 and pursuant to Section 1101 for site design review:

A. Manufacture of machine tools, medical and dental equipment, electronic instruments, mobile
homes, and food products not generating noxious odors;

B. Farm, industrial or contractor’s equipment or materials manufacture, storage, sales, repair or
service, including automobile repair garage;

C. Warehousing, wholesale storage and distributi on, and motor freight terminals contained only
within a building;

D. Fruit, nut or vegetable packing, pro cessing warehousing or cold storage operations;

E. Winery;

F. Veterinary hospital;

G. Accessory uses;

H. Temporary structures as may be required duri ng construction of an authorized permanent
structure.  Such temporary structure shall be removed upon final inspection of the permanent
structure by the Building Inspector;

I. Community or municipal water supply system;

J. Community or municipal sewer system; and

K. Signs, pursuant to the sign provisions set forth in section 1006;

L. Dwelling for a caretaker or watchman in conjunc tion with permitted use.  Site design review is
not required for the dwelling.
[Amended 7/9/98, Ord 648]

Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 702-2
M. Accessory dwelling unit within an urban growth  boundary, subject to the standards in Section
1014. Site design review is not required for the accessory dwelling unit.     [Added 06/28/18; Ord.
906]

The following uses have been approved as a similar use in the LI district:
$ RV storage (Docket SU-01-91 in TL File 5405-1001)
$ Mini-storage

702.03 Conditional Uses.

In the LI District pursuant to the Type B application procedure set forth in Section 1301, and subject
to the conditional use review criteria listed in Section 1202, and subject to Section 1101 for site design
review and any other applicable criteria established by this ordinance, the following uses may be
allowed conditionally:

A. Operations conducted for the exploration of oil,  natural gas or geothermal resources, subject to
the requirements in subsection 404.10.

B. Utility facility, subject to Section 1101 for site design review.
[Added 5/15/85; Ord. 408]

702.04 Similar Uses.

Any use not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use in this district, that is similar in
character, scale and performance to the permitted uses specified in subsection 702.02 may be allowed
as a similar use subject to the provisions of Section 1206, and pursuant to the Type A application
procedure set forth in Section 1301.

702.05 Prohibited Uses.

Uses of land and water not specifically mentioned in this section, and not allowed as a similar use, are
prohibited in the LI District.

702.06 Nonconforming Uses.

Nonconforming uses found in the LI District are subject to the nonconforming use provisions of
Section 1205 as well as to any other applicable provisions of this ordinance.

702.07 Standards and Limitations.

In the LI District, the following standards and limitations shall apply:

A. Parcel Size and Dimension.

1. Minimum Parcel Size.  The minimum parcel size for any use shall be 20,000 square
feet.

2. Depth-to-width Ratio.  The maximum de pth-to-width ratio for any newly-created
parcel shall be 3:1.

B. Setbacks.

The minimum setback for all yards shall be thirty (30) feet for all uses, except as follows:  as
follows:

Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 702-3

1. The minimum setback shall be five (5) feet for all yards for signs.

2. An accessory structure not more than fifteen (15) feet in height, at least sixty (60) feet
from a road, and at lease ten (10) feet from any dwelling may be located a minimum
distance of three (3) feet from the property line in a side yard or rear yard.

3. Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of
any yard, subject to the clear-vision area requirements of subsection 702.07 (D).

[Amended 7/9/98, Ord 648]
C. Parcel Coverage.

The maximum parcel coverage shall be thirty (30) percent for any use.

D. Access.

Before a dwelling may be established on any lot or parcel as provided in this section, the
parcel shall have a legal, safe and passable means of access by butting at least twenty (20) feet
either directly upon a public road, or by a private easement which is at least thirty (30) feet in
width for its entire length and which also abuts upon a public road for at least thirty (30) feet.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to vary or waive the requirements for creation of
new access contained in any Land Division Ordinance legally adopted by Yamhill County.

E. Clear-Vision Areas.

A clear-vision area shall be maintained on the corner of any parcel at the intersection of any
two of the following: County roads; public roads, private roads serving four or more parcels;
and railroads.  A clear-vision area shall contain no sight-obscuring structures or planting
exceeding thirty (30) inches in height within a triangle formed by the lot corner nearest the
intersection, and the two points twenty (20) feet from this corner as measured along the parcel
lines adjacent to the intersecting rights-of-way.  Trees exceeding this height may be located
such that their branches extend into this triangle, provided they are maintained to allow at least
twelve (12) feet of visual clearance within the triangle below the lowest hanging branches.

F. Height.

1. The maximum building height for any dwe lling shall be forty-five (45) feet; and

2. Appurtenances usually required to be placed  above the roof level and not intended for
human occupancy such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys and wind generators are not subject to the height limitations of this
ordinance.

H. Off-street Parking.

Off-street parking and loading requirements for any use in the LI District shall be as provided
in Section 1007.