IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                         FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                           SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In   the    Matter    of   Amending     the   Yamhill
County Public Contracting Rules; Declaring                             ORDINANCE NO. 935
an Emergency and Setting the Effective Date

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for
the transaction of county business on May 2, 2024, Commissioners Lindsay Berschauer, Kit
Johnston, and Mary Starrett being present.

THE BOARD ADOPTS THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:

     A.    WHEREAS, On February 16, 2023, the Board adopted Ordinance 924, which set forth the
           Yamhill County Public Contracting Rules (YCR) in compliance with ORS Chapters 279A,
           279B, and 279C; and

     B. WHEREAS, The YCR was subsequently codified as Yamhill County Code (YCC) 3.20;
        and

     C. WHEREAS, The County, having enacted its own contracting rules under the authority
        granted under ORS 279A.065, is thereby required to regularly review and update its rules
           to ensure ongoing compliance with ORS 279A, 279B, and 279C; and

     D. WHEREAS, In 2021, the Oregon Legislature clarified when the County can contract with
        its contractor for certain construction and preconstruction personal services via HB 3055;
        and

     E. WHEREAS, In addition, 2021’s HB 3055 removed the mandate for a public hearing, unless
        otherwise requested by the public, for exemptions from competitive bidding process for
           construction contracts; and

     F.    WHEREAS,         In 2023,   the Oregon   Legislature   increased   the   Small   Procurement      and
           Intermediate Procurement thresholds for goods and services contracts, and increased the
           Small Procurement threshold for construction contracts, via SB 1047; and

     G.    WHEREAS, In 2023, the Oregon Legislature authorized local contracting agencies to grant
           procurement preferences to corporations with “benefit company status”, as that term is
           defined under ORS 60, via HB 3572; and

     H.    WHEREAS,         In 2023, the Oregon Legislature changed the procurement preference for
           “service-disabled veteran businesses” to a preference for “veteran-owned businesses” via
           HB 2295;    and now, therefore

                                                                               Yamhill County Ordinance No. 935
                                                                                                      Page 1 of 2

                                                                                                       B2S.2A-12S
THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Amendment of Yamhill County Public Contracting Rules. The Yamhill
County Public Contracting Rules (YCC 3.20) are hereby amended as provided in the attached
Exhibit A, incorporated herein. Except as expressly amended therein, all other YCC 3.20
provisions remain unchanged and in full force and effect.

        Section 2. Severability. Invalidity of a section or part of a section of this Ordinance shall
not affect the validity of the remaining sections or parts of sections.

         Section 3. Emergency Clause; Effective Date. Pursuant to the provisions of ORS
203.045(4)-(9), an emergency has been declared to exist. This Ordinance shall therefore become
effective immediately upon passage.

DATED this 2nd day of May, 2024, at McMinnville, Oregon.

                                        YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                             wf         WA            j                   AYE     NAY
                                            Fhurolaay fre eselaier
                                                                                           x
                                        Chair LINDSAY BERSCHAUER

By:
     ae     MIE
                                        Fi Phebe                                           x
Deputy CAROLINA         ROOK            Commissioner KIT      JOHNSTON

                                        A                                                  x
JODI GOLLEHON                           Commissioner MARY STARRETT
Assistant Yamhill County Counsel

                                                                          Accepted by Yamhill County
                                                                          Board of Commissioners on
                                                                          _o¢[oz{24__ by Board Order
                                                                          Bh I       DS            ree

                                                                          Yamhill County Ordinance No. 935
                                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
                                             EXHIBIT A
            AMENDMENTS TO YAMHILL COUNTY PUBLIC
                 CONTRACTING RULES, YCC 3.20

The Yamhill County Public Contracting Rules are hereby amended as follows (new language is
indicated by underlined font and deleted language is indicated by strike-out font).

     DIVISION 046: GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTING

3.20.046.0110 Definitions. Unless the context of a specifically applicable definition in the Public
Contracting Code requires otherwise, capitalized terms used in YCR will have the meaning set
forth in the division of the YCR in which they appear, and if not defined there, the meaning set
forth in YCR Division 046, and if not defined in YCR Division 046, the meaning set forth in the
Public Contracting Code. The following terms, when capitalized in the YCR, shall have the
meaning set forth below:
a)   “Addendum”     or “Addenda”     means   an addition to, deletion from, a material change in, or
     general interest explanation of a Solicitation Document.
b)   “Administering Contracting Agency” has the meaning set forth in ORS 279A.200(1)(a) and
     for Interstate Cooperative Procurements includes the entities specified in ORS 279A.220(4).
     For purposes of the YCR, “Administering Contracting Agency” may also mean Yamhill
     County.
     “Amendment” means a written modification to a contract or agreement, other than a Change
     Order or Task Order, that is reasonably related to the scope of the original Procurement and
     requires the mutual agreement between the County and the Contractor.
d)   “Award” means, as the context requires, identifying the Person with whom the County intends
     to enter into a Public Contract following the resolution of any protest of the County’s selection
     of that Person and the completion of all Contract negotiations. The award of a Contract is not
     binding on the County nor considered acceptance until the Contract is executed and delivered
     by the County.
     “Bid” means a Written Offer to an Invitation to Bid.
     “Bidder” means Person that submits a Bid.
     “Board” means the Yamhill County Board of Commissioners.
     “Change Order” means a Written order, signed by an authorized County representative,
     directed to the Contractor that requires a change in the Work within the general scope of the
     original Contract, adjusts the Contract Price, and/or alters the completion date of a Public
     Improvement Contract.
     “Closing” means the date and time announced in a Solicitation Document as the deadline for
     submitting Offers.
D    “Code” or “Public Contracting Code” means ORS Chapters 279A, 279B and 279C.

                                                                                            Exhibit A
                                                                                         Page 1 of 25
k)   “Competitive Range” means the Proposers with whom the County intends to conduct
     discussions or negotiations with if the County intends to conduct discussions or negotiations
     in accordance with YCR 3.20.047.0267 or 3.20.049.0650. The size of the Competitive Range
     will be stated in the Solicitation Document. The size of the Competitive Range will be
     decreased if the number of Proposers that submit Proposals is less than the specified number
     and may be increased by the County in accordance with YCR 3.20.047.0262 or 3.20.049.0650.
     “Construction Services” means the services provided under a Public Improvement Contract.
     “Contract” or “Public Contract” has the meaning set forth in ORS 279A.010. “Contracts”
     also includes Purchase Orders.
     “Contract Price” means, as the context requires, (I) the maximum monetary obligations that
     the County either will or may incur under a Contract, including bonuses, incentives, and
     contingency amounts, if the Contractor fully performs under the Contract, (ii) the maximum
     not-to-exceed total cost specified in the Contract, or (iii) the unit prices for Goods or Services
     or Personal Services as set forth in the Contract.
0)   “Contract Review Authority” means the Yamhill County Board of Commissioners or its
     delegatee as otherwise provided under law.
p)   “Contracting agency” has the meaning set forth in ORS 279A.010(b). For the purposes of the
     YCR, “contracting agency” may also mean Yamhill County.
q)   “Contractor” means the Person, including a Consultant as defined in YCR 3.20.048.0110(b),
     with whom the County enters into a Contract.
9)   “County” means Yamhill County.
8)   “Cooperative Procurement” means a Procurement conducted on behalf of more than one
     governmental body.
t)   “Cooperative Procurement Group” means a group of governmental bodies joined through
     an intergovernmental agreement for the purpose of facilitating cooperative procurements.
u)   “Days” means calendar days.
v)   “Debar” or “Debarment” means the disqualification of a Person from consideration for
     Award of a Public Contract.
w)    “Descriptive Literature” means the materials submitted in response to a Solicitation
     Document to provide additional information concerning an Offer or Bid.
x)   “Disqualification” means a disqualification, suspension, or Debarment pursuant to ORS
     200.065, 200.075, 279A.110, 279B.130, 279C.440, and/or these rules.
y) “Electronic Advertisement” means the County’s Solicitation Document, Request for Quotes,
    request for information, or other document inviting participation in the County’s Procurements
    available over the Internet via: (a) the World Wide Web or some other Internet protocol; or (b)
    the County’s Electronic Procurement System.
2) “Electronic Offer” means a response to the County’s Solicitation Document or Request for
    Quotes submitted to the County via: (a) email; (b) the World Wide Web or some other Internet
    protocol; or c) through the County’s Electronic Procurement System.
aa) “Electronic Procurement” means the use of an Electronic Procurement System to conduct a
     Procurement.
bb) “Electronic Procurement System” means an information system that Persons may access
    through the Internet using the World Wide Web or some other Internet protocol, or that Persons

                                                                                            Exhibit A
                                                                                          Page 2 of 25
    may otherwise remotely access using a computer, that enables Persons to send Electronic
    Offers and the County to post Electronic Advertisements, receive Electronic Offers, and
    conduct other activities related to a Procurement.
cc) “Emergency” means circumstances that create a substantial risk of loss, damage or
    interruption of services or a substantial threat to property, public health, welfare or safety, and
    require the prompt execution of a Contract to remedy the condition.
dd) “Goods” has the meaning set forth in 279A.010(1)
ee) “Goods and Services” or “Goods or Services” means any combination of Goods and/or
    Services.
ff) “Intermediate    Procurement”     has the meaning     as set forth in either 3.20.047.0257       or
    3.20.049.0160.
gg) “Interstate Cooperative Procurement” means a Permissive Cooperative Procurement in
    which one or more of the participating governmental bodies are located outside the state of
    Oregon.
hh) “Intergovernmental Agreement” means an agreement formed under ORS 190.010.
ii) “Invitation to Bid” or “ITB” means the Solicitation Document issued to invite Bids from
    prospective Contractors in accordance with either ORS 279B.055 or 279C.335.
ji) “Joint Cooperative Procurement” means a Cooperative Procurement in which the County is
    identified in the Solicitation Document as a participating governmental body, and the County’s
   contract requirements, or estimated contract requirements, are included in the Solicitation
   Document.
kk) “Model Rules” means the Attorney General’s model rules of procedure for Public Contracting
    as required under ORS    279A.065, which are set forth in OAR       Chapter   137, Divisions 046,
    047, 048 and 049.
Il) “Nonresident Bidder” has the meaning as set forth in ORS 279A.120(a).
mm)     “Offer” means a Written offer submitted in response to a Solicitation Document.
nn) “Offeror” means a Person who submits an Offer.
oo) “Opening” means the date, time and place specified in the Solicitation Document for the public
    opening of Offers or Bids.
pp) “Permissive Cooperative Procurement” means a Cooperative Procurement in which the
    County was not identified in the Solicitation Document as a participating governmental body.
qq) “Person” means any of the following with legal capacity to enter into a Contract: individual,
    corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company,    association,
   joint venture, governmental agency, public corporation or any other legal or commercial entity.
rr) “Personal Services” means the services or type of services performed under a Personal
    Services Contract.
ss) “Personal Services Contract” or “Contract for Personal Services” means a contract or
   member of a class of contracts, other than a contract for the services of an Architect, Engineer,
   Land Surveyor, or Provider of Related Services (as defined in YCR 3.20.048.0110), that
   predominantly requires specialized skills, knowledge, and resources in the application of
   highly technical or scientific expertise, or the exercise of professional, artistic, or management
    discretion or judgment, and that the Board has designated as a Personal Services pursuant to

                                                                                            Exhibit A
                                                                                          Page 3 of 25
    ORS 279A.055. See YCR 3.20.047.910 for a full list of those services designated to be
    Personal Services.
tt) “Procurement” has the meaning as set forth in ORS 279A.010(1)(w).
uu) “Product Sample” means the exact Goods, or a representative portion of the Goods, offered
    in an Offer, or the Goods requested in the Solicitation Document as a sample. Unless otherwise
   provided in the Solicitation Document, the Product Sample shall be the exact product, or a
    representative portion of that product, offered by the Offeror.
vv) “Proposal” means a Written response to a Request for Proposals.
ww) “Proposer” means a Person that submits a Proposal.
xx) “Public Contracting” means Procurement activities described in the Public Contracting Code
    and the YCR relating to obtaining, modifying or administering public contracts or price
   agreements.
yy) “Public Improvement” has the meaning as set forth in YCR 3.20.049.0120(k).
zz) “Purchase Order” means a Written order, produced by the County Accounting system and
    signed by an authorized County representative, directed to a Contractor, committing the
    County to purchase specific Goods or Services.
aaa) “Recycled Materials” means recycled paper (as defined in ORS 279A.010(1)(gg)), recycled
     PETE products (as defined in ORS 279A.010(1)(bh)), and other recycled plastic resin
     products and recycled products (as defined in ORS 279A.010(1)(ii)).
bbb) “Request for Proposals” or “RFP” means the Solicitation Document issued to invite
    Proposals in accordance with ORS.279B.060, 279C.110, 279C.337, or 279C.400.
ccc) “Request for Qualifications” or “RFQ” means a Written document issued by the County to
     which Contractors respond in Writing by describing their experience with and qualifications
     for the Services, Personal Services, or Architectural, Engineering or Land Surveying Services,
     or Related Services (as defined in YCR 3.20.048.0110), described in the document.
ddd) “Request for Quotes” means a Written or oral request for prices, rates, or other conditions
     under which a potential Contractor would provide Goods or perform Services, Personal
     Services or Public Improvements described in the request.
eee) “Responsible Offeror” (also, “Responsible Bidder” or “Responsible Proposer”, as
     applicable) means a Person that has submitted an Offer and meets the standards set forth in
    YCR 3.20.047.0500 or 3.20.049.0390(b), and that has not been debarred or disqualified by
    the County under YCR 3.20.047.0575 or 3.20.049.0370. When used alone, “Responsible” or
    “Responsibility” means meeting the aforementioned standards.
fff) “Responsive   Offer”   (also, “Responsive Bid” or “Responsive      Proposal”,   as applicable)
   means an Offer that substantially complies in all material respects with applicable solicitation
   requirements. When used alone, “Responsive” means having the characteristic of substantially
     complying in all material respects with applicable solicitation requirements.
ggg)    “Signed” or “Signature” or “Signing” means any mark, word or symbol attached to or
     logically associated with a document and executed or adopted by a Person with the intent to
     be bound.
hhh)     “Services” mean services, other than Personal Services as so designated under YCR
   3.20.047.0910 or A&E Consultant services as defined in YCR 3.20.048.0110.

                                                                                         Exhibit A
                                                                                      Page 4 of 25
iii) “Solicitation Document” means a Request for Quotes, an Invitation to Bid, Request for
     Proposals or other document issued to invite Offers from prospective Contractors pursuant to
     ORS Chapter 279B or ORS Chapter 279C. The following are not Solicitation Documents
     unless they invite Offers from prospective Contractors: a Request for Qualifications, a
     prequalification of bidders, a request for information, a Sole-source Procurement notice, an
     approval of a Special Procurement, or a request for product prequalification. A project-specific
     selection document under a Price Agreement that has resulted from a previous Solicitation
     Document is not itself a Solicitation Document.
jij) “Specification” means any description of the physical or functional characteristics, or of the
       nature   of,   Goods,   Services,   Personal   Services,   or   Public   Improvement,   including   any
     requirement for inspecting, testing or preparing a Goods, Services, Personal Services, or Public
     Improvement for delivery and the quantities or qualities of materials to be furnished under a
     Contract. Specifications generally will state the result to be obtained and may, on occasion,
     describe the method and manner of doing the Work to be performed.
kkk)      “Student Affiliation Agreement” means an agreement between the County and an
     educational institution for the purpose of providing an opportunity for students to gain
     experience in a clinical setting or an internship program as provided by the County.
lll) “Task Order” means a Written order, signed by an authorized County representative, issued
     to a Consultant under a Price Agreement established pursuant to YCR 3.20.048.0270 that sets
     forth the agreed-upon scope of Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping,
     Transportation Planning, Land Surveying Services, or Related Services to be provided by the
     Consultant, in addition to the not-to-exceed price, hourly rates, and any additional terms and
     conditions required for an individual project.
mmm) “Veteran” has the meaning set forth in ORS 200.005.
nnn)      “Work” means the furnishing of all materials, equipment, labor, and incidentals necessary
     to successfully complete any individual item in a Contract and successful completion of all
     duties and obligations imposed by the Contract.
000)       “Written” or “Writing” means letters, characters and symbols inscribed on paper by hand,
     print, type or other method of impression, intended to represent or convey particular ideas or
     meanings. “Writing,” when required or permitted by law, or required or permitted in a
     Solicitation Document, also means letters, characters and symbols made in electronic form and
     intended to represent or convey particular ideas or meanings. It also includes electronic
     transmissions or facsimile documents when required by applicable law or permitted by a
     Solicitation Document or Contract.
ppp)      “Yamhill County Public Contracting Rules” or “YCR” means the rules of procedure for
       Contracting established for Yamhill County by the Yamhill County Board of Commissioners
      which are set forth herein.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 279A.065
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 927 eff 06/22/23; AMENDED VIA
ORDINANCE XXX eff XX/XX/XX]

                                                                                                   Exhibit A
                                                                                                Page 5 of 25
3.20.046.0210 Contracting with Emerging Small Businesses; Disqualification Under ORS
200.065-075.
a) Contracting with Emerging Small Businesses. For purposes of ORS 279A.105, a subcontractor
    certified under 200.055 as an emerging small business is located in or draws its workforce
    from economically distressed areas if:
         @)     Its principal place of business is located in an area designated as economically
                distressed under administrative rules adopted by the Oregon Business Development
                Department; or
        (i)     The Contractor certifies in a Signed Writing to the County that a substantial number
                of the subcontractor's employees or subcontractors that will manufacture or provide
                the Goods or perform the Services or Personal Services under the Contract reside
                in an area designated as economically distressed under administrative rules adopted
                by the Oregon Business Development Department. For the purposes of making the
                foregoing determination, the County shall determine in each particular instance
                what   proportion   of a Contractor’s   subcontractor's   employees   or subcontractors
                 constitutes a substantial number.
b)   Disqualification.
         @       Generally. The County may disqualify a Person from consideration for Award of
                 the County’s Contracts under ORS 200.065(5) and shall suspend a Person’s right
                 to bid on or participate in any Contract under ORS 200.075(1), after providing the
                 Person with notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard in accordance with
                 sections (b) and (c) of this rule.
         (it)    Notice. The County shall provide Written notice to the Person of a proposed
                 Disqualification. The County shall deliver the Written notice by personal service or
                 by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. This notice shall:
                 (1) State that the County intends to disqualify or suspend the Person;
                 (2) Set forth the reasons for the Disqualification;
                 (3) Include a statement of the Person’s right to a hearing if requested in Writing
                     within the time stated in the notice and that if the County does not receive the
                     Person’s Written request for a hearing within the time stated, the Person shall
                     have waived the right to a hearing;
                 (4) Include a statement of the authority under which the hearing will be held;
                 (5) Include a reference to the particular sections of the statutes and rules involved;
                 (6) State the proposed Disqualification period; and
                 (7) State that the Person may be represented by legal counsel.
         (iii) Hearing. The County shall schedule a hearing upon the County’s receipt of the
                 Person’s timely hearing request. Within a reasonable time prior to the hearing, the
                 County shall notify the Person of the time and place of the hearing and provide
                 information on the procedures, right of representation and other rights related to the
                 conduct of the hearing.
         (av) Notice of Disqualification. The County shall provide Written notice of the
                 Disqualification to the Person. The County shall deliver the Written notice by

                                                                                              Exhibit A
                                                                                           Page 6 of 25
                  personal service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The
                  notice shall contain:
                  (1) The effective date and period of Disqualification;
                  (2) The grounds for Disqualification; and
                  (3) A statement of the Person’s appeal rights and applicable appeal deadlines.
         (v)      Period of Disqualification or Suspension.
                  (1) The County may disqualify a Person from consideration for Award of the
                      County’s Public Contracts under ORS 200.065(5) for up to a period of three
                      years.
                  (2) The County shall suspend a Person’s right to bid on or participate in any
                      Contract under ORS 200.075(1) for up to a period of one year for a first
                      violation, up to three years for a second violation, and up to five years for a
                      third and all subsequent violations.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 200.065, ORS 200.075, ORS 279.065, ORS 279.100, & ORS 279A.105
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX eff XX/XX/XX|

3.20.046.0230 Non-Discrimination Certification Required for all Solicitations. The County
shall include in each Solicitation Document a requirement that Offerors certify in their Offers, in
a form prescribed by the County, that the Offeror has not discriminated, and will not discriminate,
against a subcontractor in the awarding of a subcontract because the subcontractor is certified
under ORS 200.055 as a disadvantaged business enterprise, a minority-owned business, a woman-
owned business, an emerging small business, or a Veteran-owned business-thata-service-disabled
veteran-owns. The Offeror shall certify and deliver to the County Written certification, as part of
the Offer, that the Offeror has not discriminated and will not discriminate against any
disadvantaged business enterprise, minority-owned business, women-owned business, emerging
small business, or Veteran-owned business-that-a-service-disabled-veteran-owns, in obtaining any
required subcontracts. Failure to do so shall be grounds for disqualification.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 279A.065 & ORS 279A.100
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX eff XX/XX/XX]

3.20.046.0300 Preference for Oregon Goods and Services; Nonresident Bidders.
a) Order of Precedent for Identical Offers. Pursuant to ORS 279A.120, when the County receives
    Offers identical in price, fitness, availability, and quality, and chooses to award a Contract, the
    County will award the Contract based on the following order of precedence:
        (@)     The County shall award the Contract to the Offeror among those submitting
                  identical offers that is offering Goods or Services, or both, or Personal Services that
                  have been manufactured, produced, or are to be performed in Oregon.
         Gi)      —_If two or more Offerors submit identical Offers, and both offer Goods or Services,
                  or both, or Personal Services manufactured, produced, or are to be performed in
                  Oregon, the County shall award the Contract by drawing lots among the identical
                  Offers. The Offerors that submitted the identical Offers subject to the drawing of
                  lots shall be given notice of the date, time, and location of the drawing of lots and
                  an opportunity to be present when the lots are drawn.

                                                                                              Exhibit A
                                                                                            Page 7 of 25
         (iii)   If the County receives identical Offers, and none of the identical Offers offer Goods
                 or Services, or both, or Personal Services manufactured, produced,            or are to be
                  performed in Oregon, then the County shall award the Contract by drawing lots
                  among the identical Offers. The Offerors that submitted the identical Offers subject
                  to the drawing of lots shall be given notice of the date, time, and location of the
                  drawing of lots and an opportunity to be present when the lots are drawn.
b)   Determining if Offers are Identical. The County shall consider Offers identical in price, fitness,
     availability, and quality as follows:
         @       Bids received in response to an Invitation to Bid are identical in price, fitness,
                 availability, and quality if the Bids are Responsive, and offer the Goods or Services
                 or Personal Services described in the Invitation to Bid at the same price.
        (ii)     Proposals received in response to a Request for Proposals are identical in price,
                 fitness, availability, and quality if they are Responsive and achieve equal scores
                 when scored in accordance with the evaluation criteria set forth in the Request for
                 Proposals.
         (iii)   Offers received in response to a Special Procurement conducted pursuant to ORS
                 279B.085 are identical in price, fitness, availability, and quality if, the County
                 determines, in Writing, that two or more Offers are equally Advantageous to the
                 County.
        (iv)     Offers received in response to a Request for Quotes issued as part of an
                 Intermediate Procurement are identical if the Offers equally best serve the interests
                 of the County.
c)   Determining if Goods or Services or Personal Services are Manufactured or Produced in
     Oregon. For the purposes of complying with section (a) of this rule, the County shall determine
     whether a Contract is predominantly for Goods, Services, or Personal Services and then use
     the predominant purpose to determine if the Goods, Services, or Personal Services are
     manufactured, produced, or performed in Oregon. The County may request, either in a
     Solicitation Document, following Closing, or at any other time determined appropriate by the
     County, any information the County determines is appropriate and necessary to allow the
     County to determine if the Goods or Services or Personal Services are manufactured or
     produced in Oregon. The County may use any reasonable criteria to determine if Goods,
     Services, or Personal Services are manufactured      or produced in Oregon,       provided that the
     criteria reasonably relate to that determination, and provided that the County applies those
     criteria equally to each Offer.
d)   Procedure for Drawing Lots. In any instance when this section calls for the drawing of lots, the
     County shall draw lots by a procedure that affords each Offeror subject to the drawing a
     substantially equal probability of being selected, and that does not allow the person making
     the selection the opportunity to manipulate the drawing of lots to increase the probability of
     selecting one Offeror over another.
e)   Discretionary Preference and Award. Under ORS 279A.128, the County may provide, in a
     Solicitation Document    for Goods,   Services,   or Personal   Services,   a specified    percentage
     preference of not more than ten percent for (i) Goods fabricated or processed entirely in
     Oregon, or Services or Personal Services performed entirely in Oregon, or (ii) for goods or

                                                                                                 Exhibit A
                                                                                               Page 8 of 25
     services provided by a benefit company that is incorporated, organized, formed or created
     under ORS 60.754 and has the majority of the benefit company’s regular, full-time workforce
     located in this state, if the goods or services cost not more than five percent more than the
     goods or services available from a Contractor that is not a benefit company. When the County
     provides for a preference under this section, and more than one Offeror qualifies for the
     preference, the County may give a further preference to a qualifying Offeror that resides in or
     is headquartered in Oregon. The County may establish a preference percentage higher than ten
     percent by Written order that finds good cause to establish the higher percentage, and which
     explains the County’s reasons and evidence for finding good cause to establish a higher
     percentage. The County may not apply the preferences described in this section in a
     Procurement for emergency work, minor alterations, ordinary repairs, or maintenance of a
     Public Improvement, or construction that is described in ORS 297C.320.
f)   Nonresident Contractor. If the Contract Price exceeds $10,000 and the Contractor is a
     Nonresident Bidder, the Contractor shall promptly report to the Oregon Department of
     Revenue on forms provided by the Department of Revenue, the Contract Price, terms of
     payment, Contract duration and such other information as the Department of Revenue may
     require before final payment can be made on the Contract. A copy of the report shall be
     forwarded to the County. The County shall satisfy itself that the above requirements have been
     complied with before it issues final payment on the Contract.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065; OL 2011 & CH 237
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 279.065; 279.120 & 279A.128; OL 2011 & CH 237
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO, 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX eff XX/XX/XX)

                                                                                          Exhibit A
                                                                                       Page 9 of 25
        DIVISION 047; PUBLIC PROCUREMENT   OF GOODS OR SERVICES

No amendments proposed.

                                                                  Exhibit A
                                                             Page 10 of 25
                       DIVISION 048: A&E CONSULTANT SELECTION

3.20.048.0130 Applicable Selection Procedures; Pricing Information; Proposal Disclosures;
Conflicts.
a) When selecting the most qualified Consultants to perform Architectural, Engineering,
    Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning, or Land Surveying Services, the County
     shall follow the applicable selection procedure under either 3.20.048.0210 (Informal Selection
     Procedure), 3.20.048.0220 (Formal Selection Procedure), or 3.20.048.0200 (Direct
     Appointment Procedure). In following the Direct Appointment Procedure under YCR
     3.20.048.0200, the County may base its selection of a Consultant on any information available
     to the County prior to beginning the Direct Appointment Procedure for the project involved.
     The County may solicit or use pricing policies and pricing Proposals, or other pricing
     information, including the number of hours proposed for the services required, expenses,
     hourly rates and overhead, in any of the County’s selection procedures to select Consultants to
     perform Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning, or
     Land Surveying Services pursuant to the requirements of YCR 3.20.048.280 and
     ORS279C.110(5).
b)   If selecting a Consultant to perform Related Services, the County shall follow one of the
     following selection procedures:
         @      When selecting a Consultant on the basis of qualifications alone, the County shall
                 follow the applicable selection procedure under YCR            3.20.048.0200       (Direct
                 Appointment Procedure), 3.20.048.0210 (Informal Selection Procedure), or
                 3.20.048.0220 (Formal Selection Procedure);
        Gi)    | When selecting a Consultant on the basis of price competition alone, the County
                 shall follow the applicable provisions under YCR 3.20.048.0200 (Direct
                 Appointment Procedure), the applicable provisions of 3.20.048.0210 (Informal
                 Selection Procedure) pertaining to obtaining and evaluating price Proposals and
                 other pricing information, or the applicable provisions of 3.20.048.0220 (Formal
                 Selection Procedure) pertaining to obtaining and evaluating price Proposals and
                 other pricing information; and
        Gii)   | When selecting a Consultant on the basis of price and qualifications, the County
                 shall follow the applicable provisions under YCR 3.20.048.0200 (Direct
                 Appointment Procedure), the applicable provisions of 3.20.048.0210 (Informal
                 Selection Procedure) pertaining to obtaining and evaluating price and qualifications
                 Proposals, or the applicable provisions of 3.20.048.0220 (Formal Selection
                 Procedure) pertaining to obtaining and evaluating price and qualifications
                 Proposals. For selections under the informal selection procedure of YCR
                 3.20.048.0210, the County may use abbreviated requests for Proposals that
                 nevertheless meet the requirements of YCR 3.20.048.0210, when the County
                 determines, in its sole discretion, that the characteristics of the project and the
                 Related Services required by the County would be adequately addressed by a more
                 abbreviated Request for Proposals document, generally comparable to the
                 Intermediate   Procurement   procedures   and   related   documentation    under     ORS

                                                                                              Exhibit A
                                                                                           Page 11 of 25
                 279B.070 and 3.20.047.0270. The County may request and consider a Proposer’s
                 pricing policies and pricing Proposals or other pricing information, including the
                 number of hours proposed for the services required, expenses, hourly rates and
                 overhead, submitted with a Proposal.
c)   The County is not required to follow the procedures in section (a) or section (b) of this rule
     when the County has established Price Agreements with more than one Consultant and is
     selecting a single Consultant to perform Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric
     Mapping, Transportation Planning, Land Surveying Services, or Related Services under an
     individual Task Order. Provided, however, the criteria and procedures the County uses to select
     a single Consultant, when the County has established Price Agreements with more than one
     Consultant, must meet the requirements of YCR 3.20.048.0270 (Price Agreements).
d)   The County may use electronic methods to screen and select a Consultant in accordance with
     the procedures described in sections (a) and (b) of this rule. If the County uses electronic
     methods to screen and select a Consultant, the County will first promulgate rules for
     conducting the screening and selection procedure by electronic means, substantially in
     conformance with YCR 3.20.047.0330 (Electronic Procurement).
     For purposes of these Division 048 rules, a “mixed” Contract is one requiring the Consultant
     to perform Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning,
     or Land Surveying Services and also provide Related Services, other Services, or other related
     Goods under the Contract. The County’s classification of a Procurement that will involve a
     “mixed” Contract will be determined by the predominant purpose of the Contract. The County
     will determine the predominant purpose of the Contract by determining which of the Services
     involves the majority of the total Estimated Fee to be paid under the Contract. If the majority
     of the total Estimated Fee to be paid under the Contract is for Architectural, Engineering,
     Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning, or Land Surveying Services, the County
     shall comply with the requirements of ORS 279C.110 and section (a) of this rule. If majority
     of the total Estimated Fee to be paid under the Contract is for Related Services, the County
     shall comply with the requirements of ORS 279C.120 and section (b) of this rule. If the
     majority of the total Estimated Fee to be paid under the Contract is for some other Services or
     Goods under the Public Contracting Code, the County shall comply with the applicable
     provisions of the Public Contracting Code and Divisions 046, 047, and 049 of the YCR that
     match the predominant purpose of the Contract.
     Consistent with the requirements of ORS 279C.107 and the remaining requirements of ORS
     279C.100, 279C.105 and 279C.110 through 279C.125, the following provisions apply to
     Proposals received by the County for Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping,
     Transportation Planning, or Land Surveying Services or Related Services:
          (i)    The term “competitive proposal,” for the purposes of ORS 279C.107, includes
                 Proposals under YCR 3.20.048.0200 (Direct Appointment Procedure), YCR
                 3.20.048.0210 (Informal Selection Procedure),        YCR 3.20.048.0220 (Formal
                 Selection Procedure) or YCR 3.20.048.0130(b)(iii) (selection based on price and
                 qualifications) and any Proposals submitted in response to a selection process for a
                 Task Order under YCR 3.20.048.0270 (Price Agreements).

                                                                                          Exhibit A
                                                                                      Page 12 of 25
        Gi)     For purposes of Proposals received by the County under YCR 3.20.048.0200
                (Direct Appointment Procedure), a formal notice of intent to Award is not required.
                As a result, while the County may make Proposals under YCR 3.20.048.0200
                (Direct Appointment Procedure) open for public inspection following the County’s
                decision to begin Contract negotiations with the selected Consultant, YCR
                3.20.048.0200 Proposals are not required to be open for public inspection until after
                the County has executed a Contract with the selected Consultant.
        (iii)   In the limited circumstances permitted by ORS 279C.110, 279C.115, and
                279C.120, where the County is conducting discussions or negotiations with
                Proposers who submit Proposals that the County has determined to be closely
                competitive or to have a reasonable chance of being selected for award, the County
                may open Proposals so as to avoid disclosure of Proposal contents to competing
                Proposers, consistent with the requirements of ORS 279C.107. Otherwise, the
                County may open Proposals in such a way as to avoid disclosure of the contents
                until after the County executes a Contract with the selected Consultant. If the
                County determines that it is in the best interest of the County to do so, the County
                may make Proposals available for public inspection following the County’s
                issuance of a notice of intent to Award a Contract to a Consultant; and
        (iv)    Disclosure of Proposals and Proposal information is otherwise governed by ORS
                279C.107.
g)   As required by ORS 279C.307, pertaining to requirements to ensure the objectivity and
     independence of providers of certain Personal Services which are procured under ORS chapter
     279C, the County may not:
         (i)    Procure the Personal Services identified in ORS 279C.307 from a Contractor or an
                affiliate of a Contractor who is a party to the Public Contract that is subject to
                administration, management, monitoring, inspection, evaluation, or oversight by
                means of the Personal Services; or
        (ii)     Procure the Personal Services identified in ORS 279C.307 through the Public
                 Contract that is subject to administration, management, monitoring, inspection,
                 evaluation, or oversight by means of the Personal Services.
h)   The requirements of ORS 279C.307 and section (g) of this rule apply in the following
     circumstances, except as provided in section (i) of this rule:
         (i)     The County requires the Procurement of Personal Services for the purpose of
                 administering, managing, monitoring, inspecting, evaluating compliance with, or
                 otherwise overseeing a Public Contract or performance under a Public Contract that
                 is subject to ORS chapter 279C. A “Public Contract that is subject to ORS chapter
                 279C” includes a Public Contract for Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric
                 Mapping, Transportation Planning, or Land Surveying Services, a Public Contract
                 for Related Services, or a Public Contract for Construction Services under ORS
                 chapter 279C and the YCR Division 049 rules.
         ai)     The Procurements of Personal Services subject to the restrictions of ORS 279C.307
                include, but are not limited to, the following:

                                                                                           Exhibit A
                                                                                       Page 13 of 25
                1.   Procurements for Architectural, Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping,
                     Transportation Planning, or Land Surveying Services, which involve
                     overseeing or monitoring the performance of a Construction Services
                     Contractor under a Public Contract for Construction Services subject to ORS
                     chapter 279C and YCR Division 049 rules;
                2.   Procurements for commissioning services, which involve monitoring,
                     inspecting, evaluating, or otherwise overseeing the performance of a Contractor
                     providing     Architectural,     Engineering,    Photogrammetric      Mapping,
                     Transportation Planning, or Land Surveying Services or the performance of a
                     Construction Services Contractor under a Public Contract for Construction
                     Services subject to ORS chapter 279C and the YCR Division 049 rules;
                3.   Procurements for project management services, which involve administration,
                     management, monitoring, inspecting, evaluating compliance with, or otherwise
                     overseeing the performance of a Contractor providing Architectural,
                     Engineering, Photogrammetric Mapping, Transportation Planning, or Land
                     Surveying Services, Construction Services subject to ORS chapter 279C and
                     the YCR Division 049 rules, commissioning services, or other Related Services
                     for a project;
                4.   Procurements for special inspections and testing services, which involve
                     inspecting, testing, or otherwise overseeing the performance of a Construction
                     Services Contractor under a Public Contract for Construction Services subject
                     to ORS chapter 279C and the YCR Division 29 rules; and
                5.   Procurements   for other Related Services or Personal Services, which involve
                     administering, managing, monitoring, inspecting, evaluating compliance with,
                     or otherwise overseeing the Public Contracts described in subsection (h)(i) of
                     this rule.
i)   The restrictions of ORS 279C.307 do not apply in the following circumstances, except as
     further specified below:
         @       To the County’s Procurement of both design services and Construction Services
                 through a single “Design-Build” Procurement, as that term is defined in YCR
                 3.20.049.0610. Such a Design-Build Procurement includes a Procurement under an
                 Energy Savings Performance Contract, as defined in ORS 279A.010. Provided,
                 however, the restrictions of ORS 279C.307 do apply to the County’s Procurement
                of Personal Services for the purpose of administering, managing, monitoring,
                inspecting, evaluating compliance with, or otherwise overseeing a Design-Build
                Contract or performance under such a Contract resulting from a Design-Build
                Procurement; and
        (ii)    To the County’s Procurement of both pre-Construction Services and Construction
                Services through a single Procurement of Construction Manager/General
                Contractor Services, as that term is defined in ORS 279C.332(3). Provided,
                however, the restrictions of ORS 279C.307 do apply to the County’s Procurement
                of Personal Services for the purpose of administering, managing, monitoring,
                inspecting, evaluating compliance with, or otherwise overseeing a Construction

                                                                                          Exhibit A
                                                                                      Page 14 of 25
                 Manager/General Contractor Services Contract or performance under such a
                 Contract resulting from a Procurement of Construction Manager/General
                 Contractor Services.
j)   Aspermitted by ORS 279C.307(3), the County may apply for an exception to the requirements
     of ORS 279C.307(1) in the situation when the County anticipates that it must procure Personal
     Services for the purpose of administering, managing, monitoring, inspecting, evaluating
     compliance with, or otherwise overseeing a Public Contract or performance under a Public
     Contract that is subject to ORS chapter 279C, and the County desires to accept a Bid or other
     Proposal from a Contractor or Consultant that would otherwise be prohibited from bidding or
     proposing to provide the required Personal Services. In order for the County to obtain such an
     exception to the requirements of ORS 279C.307(1), the County must apply for and obtain an
     approved exception from the Appropriate Authority for the County before awarding a contract
     to the Contractor or Consultant under a Procurement for the required Personal Services, or
     before entering into an amendment of an existing Public Contract with the Contractor or
     Consultant to obtain the Personal Services.
        @       Application Requirements. The Contracting Agency’s application to the
                Appropriate Authority for an exception under ORS 279C.307(3) must include the
                following Findings and Justifications:
                1. The Contracting Agency requires the Personal Services described in ORS
                    279C.307(1);
                2. Accepting a Bid or Proposal from _a Contractor or Consultant that would be
                    subject to the prohibition described in ORS 279C.307(1) is in the best interest
                    of the Contracting Agency:
                3. Approving the exception is unlikely to encourage favoritism in awarding Public
                    Contracts or to substantially diminish competition for Public Contracts; and
                4. Approving the exception:
                    A. Is_reasonably expected _to result in substantial cost_savings to the
                         Contracting Agency or the public; or
                    B. Otherwise will substantially promote the public interest in a manner that
                        could not be practicably realized by complying with the prohibition
                        described in ORS 279C.307(1).
        (ai)    Consultation with Legal Counsel. A Contracting Agency shall consult with the
                Contracting Agency’s legal counsel during the exception process provided for in
                ORS 279C.307(3) as follows:
                1.   During the process of preparing an application for the exception to ensure
                     compliance with the requirements of ORS 279C.307 and with the other
                     applicable provisions of ORS Chapter 279C;
                2.   Pursuant to the requirements of an ORS 279C.307(3) exception approved _by
                     the Contracting Agency’s Appropriate Authority; and
                3.   The Contracting Agency’s consultation with its legal counsel should include
                     discussion and evaluation of mitigation measures that the Contracting Agency
                     can include in the Procurement and in any resulting Public Contract for the
                     Personal Services, in order to reduce any competitive advantage that the

                                                                                         Exhibit A
                                                                                     Page 15 of 25
                       Contractor or Consultant may have or may be perceived to have, and to increase
                      the objectivity and independence of the Contractor or Consultant during its
                      performance of the Personal Services.
         Gii)     Definitions. The following definitions apply to section (j) of this rule:
                  i “Appropriate        Authority”    means    the   Yamhill      County    Board of
                       Commissioners; and
                       ‘
                  2.      ‘Findings and_Justifications” means the determinations, findings and
                        justifications for a conclusion that the County, in seeking an exception from the
                        objectivity and independence requirements of ORS 279C.307(1), reaches based
                        on the considerations set forth in ORS 279C.307(3)(d) and based on sufficient
                        supporting facts.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 279C.100 -279C.125
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX
                                                                   XX/XX/XX|
                                                                       eff

                                                                                              Exhibit A
                                                                                          Page 16 of 25
     DIVISION 049: GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO PUBLIC CONTRACTS                                   FOR
                                CONSTRUCTION

3.20.049.0120 Definitions.
a)    “Alternative Contracting Methods” means innovative techniques for soliciting Public
      Improvement Contracts and involves utilizing processes other than the traditional methods
      required in the design-bid-build Construction Contracting method (with Award of a Public
      Improvement Contract based solely on price, in which a final design is issued with formal Bid
      documents, Construction Work is obtained by sealed Bid Awarded to the Responsible Bidder
      submitting the lowest Responsive Bid, and the project is built in accordance with those
      documents).
b)    “Bid Form” means the documented Offer submitted in response to an ITB. It may include, but
      is not limited to, the pricing submittal form, the first-tier disclosure form, the certifications and
      acknowledgment form, and the Offeror signature form.
c)    “Certified Firm” means a business that possesses one or more current, valid certification(s)
      as a Disadvantaged Business Enterprise, Minority-Owned Business, Woman-Owned Business,
      Veteran-owned Business-FhatService-Disabled-Veterans-Own, or Emerging Small Business
      by the Oregon Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity, pursuant to ORS
      200.055.
d)    “Conduct Disqualification” means a Disqualification pursuant to ORS 279C.440.
e)    “Construction” means the building of County buildings and other structures, or additions
      thereto, and of County highways and roads.
f)    “Cost Estimate” means the County’s most recent pre-Bid, good faith assessment of anticipated
      Contract costs, consisting either of an estimate of an architect, engineer, or other qualified
      professional,   or confidential   cost calculation work   sheets, where   available,   and otherwise
      consisting of formal planning or budgetary documents.
g)    “Findings” has the meaning as set forth in ORS 279C.330.
h)    “Foreign Contractor” means a Contractor that is not domiciled in or registered to do business
      in the State of Oregon.
i)    “Major Renovation” means the remodeling or alteration of County buildings, structures,
      highways, and roads that is not a minor alteration, ordinary repair, or maintenance of the
      County building, structure, highway, or road.
j)    “Notice” means any of the alternative forms of public announcement of Procurements, as
      described in YCR 3.20.049.0210.
k)    “Public Improvement” means a project for Construction, Reconstruction, or Major
      Renovation on real property by or for the County. “Public Improvement” does not include: (a)
      projects for which no funds of the County are directly or indirectly used, except for
      participation that is incidental or related primarily to project design or inspection; or (b)
      emergency Work, minor alteration, ordinary repair, or maintenance necessary to preserve the
      real property.
1)    “Public Works” has the meaning as set forth in ORS 279C.800(6), and generally includes, but
      is not limited to, Construction, Reconstruction, Major Renovation, or painting projects where
      the total project cost is $50,000 or greater, and where the project directly or indirectly uses

                                                                                                 Exhibit A
                                                                                             Page 17 of 25
   County funds. In determining the total project cost, the County shall include the collective
   value of all Work being performed on the project, including Work performed by each and all
   Contractors, subcontractors, and/or any other Persons being paid by a Contractor or
   subcontractor to Work on the project.
m) “Reconstruction” means the resurfacing and rebuilding of County highways and roads, the
   restoration of existing County highways and roads, and the restoration of County buildings and
     other    structures,        none         of which   is   considered   a   minor     alteration,   ordinary    repair,   or
     maintenance of the County highway, road, building, or structure.
n)   “Value Engineering” means the identification of Alternative Construction Methods,
     materials, or systems which provide for comparable function at reduced initial or life-time cost.
     It includes proposed changes to the plans, Specifications, or other Contract requirements which
     may be made, consistent with industry practice, under the original Contract by mutual
     agreement in order to take advantage of potential cost savings without impairing the essential
     functions or characteristics of the Public Improvement. Cost savings include those resulting
     from life cycle costing, which may either increase or decrease absolute costs over varying time
     periods.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 279A.065
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE
                                                             XXX eff XX/XX/XX]

3.20.049.0155 Small Construction Contracts Exempted from Competitive Bids.
a) Award. The County may Award a Public Improvement Contract with a value ef less than
    $409,000 or equal to the applicable dollar amount stated in ORS 279C.335(1)(c) (a “Small
    Public Improvement Contract”) in any manner deemed practical or convenient by the County,
    including by direct selection, appointment, or Award.
b) Modifications. A Small Public Improvement Contract may be modified in accordance with
     YCR      3.20.049.0910, but the cumulative modifications                       shall not increase the total Contract
     Price to greater than $49,009 the applicable dollar amount stated in ORS 279C.335(1)(c). If
     the     Contract         Price      exceeds    $40,609      the   applicable      dollar   amount    stated    in   ORS
     279C.335(1)(c), the Work must be competitively bid or quoted as otherwise required in these
     rules-herein.
c)   Artificial Division Prohibited. A Procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented so
     as to establish a Small Public Improvement Contract under this rule.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED:     ORS   279C.335
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX eff XX/XX/XX)

3.20.049.0160 Intermediate Procurements; Competitive Quotes and Amendments.
a) Generally. Publi                          HH         he
     m5 ay—d ho   A   wa              iti—a

     ecompetitive—quotes—established—by—this    tule. For Procurements of Construction Services
     estimated by the County to be greater than the dollar amount stated in ORS 279C.412, but less
     than or equal to the applicable dollar amount stated in ORS 279C.335(1)(c), the County may
     Award a Contract as an Intermediate Procurement pursuant to this rule and ORS 279C.412.

                                                                                                                   Exhibit A
                                                                                                             Page 18 of 25
b)   Selection Criteria. The selection criteria may be limited to price or some combination of price,
     experience,           specific         expertise,     availability,   project   understanding,   contractor      capacity,
     responsibility and similar factors.
c)   Request for Quotes. The County shall utilize Written Requests for Quotes whenever reasonably
     practicable. Written Requests for Quotes shall include the selection criteria to be utilized in
     selecting a Contractor and, if the criteria are not of equal value, their relative value or ranking.
     When requesting quotations orally, prior to requesting the price quote the County shall state
     any additional selection criteria and, if the criteria are not of equal value, their relative value.
     For Public Works Contracts, oral quotations may be utilized only in the event that Written
   copies of the prevailing wage rates are not required by the Bureau of Labor and Industries.
d) Number of Quotes; Record Required. The County shall seek at least three competitive quotes
     and keep a Written record of the sources and amounts of the quotes received. If three quotes
     are not reasonably available, the County shall make a Written record of the effort made to
     obtain those quotes.
e)   Award. If Awarded, the County shall Award the Contract to the prospective Contractor whose
     quote will best serve the interests of the County, taking into account the announced selection
     criteria. If Award is not made to the Offeror offering the lowest price, the County shall make
     a Written record of the basis for Award.
f)   Modifications. An Intermediate Public Improvement Contract may be modified in accordance
     with YCR 3.20.049.0910. Amendments of intermediate level Public Improvement Contracts
     that exceed the thresholds stated in subsection (a) with the following limitations:
          qa)     All Amendments in the aggregate may not increase the Contract Price more than
                   25% over the original Contract amount;
          (ii)     The additional scope is reasonably related to the original scope of the project; and
          (ii) | The Board determines in Writing that such a price increase is warranted.
g) Artificial Division Prohibited.                       A Procurement may not be artificially divided or fragmented so
     as to establish an Intermediate Public Improvement Contract under this rule.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS, IMPLEMENTED:        ORS   279C.412
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX
                                                                   XX/XX/XX]
                                                                       eff

3.20.049.0370 Disqualification of Persons.
a) Authority. The County may disqualify a Person from consideration of Award of the County’s
    Contracts after providing the Person with notice and a reasonable opportunity to be heard in
    accordance with sections (b) and (c) of this rule.
         qi)       Standards for Conduct Disqualification. As provided in ORS 279C.440, the County
                      may disqualify a Person for:
                      1.     Conviction for the commission of a criminal offense as an incident in obtaining
                             or attempting to obtain a public or private contract or subcontract, or in the
                             performance of such contract or subcontract;
                      2.     Conviction          under     state or federal    statutes   of embezzlement,   theft,    forgery,
                             bribery, falsification or destruction of records, receiving stolen property, or any
                             other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that

                                                                                                                   Exhibit A
                                                                                                             Page 19 of 25
          currently,    seriously,   and   directly   affects     the Person’s    responsibility     as a
          contractor;
          Conviction under state or federal antitrust statutes; or

      »
          Violation of a contract provision that is regarded by the County to be so serious
          as to justify Conduct Disqualification. A violation under this subsection
          (a)(1)@)(4) may include, but is not limited to, material failure to perform the
          terms of a contract or an unsatisfactory performance in accordance with the
          terms of the contract. However, a Person’s failure to perform or unsatisfactory
          performance caused by acts beyond the Person’s control is not a basis for
          Disqualification.
Gi)   Standards for Disqualification. As provided in ORS 200.065, ORS 200.075 or ORS
      279A.110, the County may disqualify a Person’s right to submit an Offer or to
      participate in a Contract (e.g., subcontractors) as follows:
      tt. For a Disqualification under ORS 200.065, the County may disqualify a Person
          upon finding that:
          A. The Person fraudulently obtained or retained or attempted to obtain or retain
               or aided another Person to fraudulently obtain or retain or attempt to obtain
               or retain certification as a disadvantaged business enterprise, minority-
               owned business, women-owned business, emerging small business, or a
               Veteran-owned business-that-e-service-disabled    veteran owns;
          B. The Person knowingly made a false claim that any Person is qualified for
               certification or is certified under ORS 200.055 for the purpose of gaining a
               Contract, subcontract, or other benefit; or
          C. The Person has been disqualified by another county under ORS 200.065.
          For a Disqualification under ORS 200.075, the County may disqualify a Person
          upon finding that:
          A. The Person has entered into an agreement representing that a disadvantaged
               business enterprise, minority-owned business, women-owned business,
               emerging small business, or a Veteran-owned_business—that-a—serviee-
              disabled—yeteran—ewns,            certified       under   ORS      200.055      (“Certified
             Enterprise”), will perform or supply materials under a Public Improvement
             Contract without the knowledge and consent of the Certified Enterprise;
          B. The Person exercises management and decision-making control over the
             internal operations, as defined by ORS 200.075(1)(b), of any Certified
             Enterprise;
          C. The Person uses a Certified Enterprise to perform Work under a Public
             Improvement Contract to meet an established Certified Enterprise goal, and
              such enterprise does not perform a commercially useful function, as defined
             by ORS 200.075(3), in performing its obligations under the Contract; or
          D. Ifa Person is Disqualified for a Disqualification under ORS 200.075, the
             County shall not permit that Person to participate in any of the County’s
             Contracts.

                                                                                              Exhibit A
                                                                                           Page 20 of 25
                  3.   For a Disqualification under ORS 279A.110, the County may disqualify a
                       Person if the County finds that the Person discriminated against a disadvantaged
                       business enterprise, minority-owned business, women-owned               business,
                       emerging small business, or a Veteran-owned business-that-a-service-disabled
                       ¥veteran-owns in awarding a subcontract under a Contract with that County.
b) Notice of Intent to Disqualify. The County shall notify the Person in Writing of a proposed
     Disqualification personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. This
     notice shall:
         (i)       State that the County intends to disqualify the Person;
         (ii)      Set forth the reasons for the Disqualification;
         (iii) Include a statement of the Person’s right to a hearing if requested in Writing within
                  the time stated in the notice;
         (iv)   State that if the County does not receive the Person’s Written request for a hearing
                within the time stated, the Person shall have waived its right to a hearing;
         (v)    Include a statement of the authority under which the hearing will be held;
         (vi)   Include a reference to the particular sections of the statutes and rules involved;
         (vii) State the proposed Disqualification period; and
         (viii) State that the Person may be represented by legal counsel.
c)   Hearing. The County shall schedule a hearing upon the County’s receipt of the Person’s timely
     hearing request. Within a reasonable time prior to the hearing, the County shall notify the
     Person of the time and place of the hearing and provide information on the procedures, right
     of representation, and other rights related to the conduct of the hearing.
d)   Notice of Disqualification. The County will notify the Person in Writing of its Disqualification,
     personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall contain:
         (i)     The effective date and period of Disqualification;
         (ii)    The grounds for Disqualification; and
         (iii) A statement of the Person’s appeal rights and applicable appeal deadlines. For a
                  Conduct Disqualification or a Disqualification under ORS 279A.110, the
                  disqualified person must notify the County in Writing within three (3) business
                 Days after receipt of the County’s notice of Disqualification if the Person intends
                 to appeal the County’s decision.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 200.065, 200.075, ORS 279A.110, ORS 279C.440, ORS 279C.445, & ORS 279C.450
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XXX eff XX/XX/XX]

3.20.049.0630 Findings, Notice, and Hearing.
a) Cost Savings Factors and Other Substantial Benefits Factors. When Findings are required
     under ORS 279C.335 to exempt a Contract or class of Contracts from competitive bidding
     requirements,      the   “substantial    cost   savings”     criterion    at ORS      279C.335(2)(b)   requires
     consideration of the type, cost, and amount of the Contract, and to the extent applicable, the
     other factors set forth in 279C.335(2)(b). If a particular factor has no application whatsoever
     to the particular Public Improvement Contract or class of Public Improvement Contracts, the
     Board does not need to consider that factor, and the County is not required to address the factor,

                                                                                                         Exhibit A
                                                                                                     Page 21 of 25
     other than to explain why the factor has no application whatsoever to the particular Public
     Improvement Contract or class of Public Improvement Contracts.
b)   Required Information. The statutory definition of “Findings” at ORS 279C.330(2), which
     applies to exemptions from competitive bidding under ORS 279C.335, means the justification
     for a County conclusion regarding the factors listed in both ORS 279C.335(2)(a) and
     279C.335(2)(b) or, in the alternative, both 279C.335(2)(a) and 279C.335(2)(c).
     Addressing Cost Savings. Accordingly, when the Contract or class of Contracts under
     consideration for an exemption contemplates the use of Alternative Contracting Methods, the
     “substantial cost savings and other substantial benefits” requirement may be addressed by a
     combination of:
         (i)     Specified Findings that address the factors and other information specifically
                 identified by statute, including, but not limited to, an analysis or reasonable forecast
                 of future cost savings as well as present cost savings and other substantial benefits;
                 and
         (ii)    Additional Findings that address industry practices, surveys, trends, past
                 experiences, evaluations of completed projects required by ORS 279C.355, and
                 related information regarding the expected benefits and drawbacks of particular
                 Alternative Contracting Methods. To the extent practicable, such Findings shall
                 relate back to the specific characteristics of the Public Improvement project or
                 projects at issue in the exemption request.
d)   Favoritism _and Competition. The criteria at ORS 279C.335(2)(a) that the exemption is
     “unlikely to encourage favoritism” or “substantially diminish competition” may be addressed
     in contemplating the use of Alternative Contracting Methods by specifying the manner in
     which an RFP process will be utilized, that the Procurement will be formally advertised with
     public notice and disclosure of the planned Alternative Contracting Method, that competition
     will be encouraged, that Award will be made based upon identified selection criteria, and that
     there will be an opportunity to protest that Award.
     Class Exemptions. In making the Findings supporting a class exemption, the County shall
     clearly identify the class with respect to its defining characteristics. The class must meet the
     following requirements:
          (i)     The class cannot be based on a single characteristic or factor, so that the County
                  directly or indirectly creates a class whereby the County uses, for example, the
                 CM/GC Method for all County Public Improvement projects or all County Public
                 Improvement projects over a particular dollar amount, unidentified future County
                 Public Improvement projects of a particular Work category, or all County Public
                 Improvement projects from a particular funding source such as the sale of bonds;
                 and
         Gi)     The class must include a combination of factors, must be defined by the County
                 through characteristics that reasonably relate to the exemption criteria set forth in
                 ORS 279C.335(2), and must reflect a detailed evaluation of those characteristics so
                 that the class is defined in a limited way that effectively meets the County’s
                 objectives while allowing for impartial and open competition, and protecting the
                 integrity of the exemption process. An example of a class that might be permitted

                                                                                              Exhibit A
                                                                                          Page 22 of 25
                  under the statute is a series of Public Improvement projects, such as a specific group
                      of building renovation projects, that:
                       1.     Involve renovations for a common purpose;
                      2.      Require completion on a related schedule     in order to avoid    unnecessary
                              disruption of County operations;
                      3.      Share common characteristics, such as historic building considerations, the
                              presence of asbestos or other hazardous substances, or the presence of County
                              staff during construction;
                      4.      Otherwise possess characteristics that meet the requirements of ORS
                              279C.335(2); and
                 5. Otherwise meet the requirements of the Board, as applicable.
f)   Public Hearing. Before final adoption of Findings exempting a Public Improvement Contract
     from the requirement of competitive bidding, the County shall give notice and hold a public
     hearing as required by ORS 279C.335(54). The notice shall state that, in response to a written
      request, the County will hold a public hearing for the purpose of taking comments on the draft
      Findings for an exemption from the competitive bidding requirement. The notice may include
      specific information about the date, time, and location of the public hearing that may be held,
      or the County may issue a secondary public notice with the date, time, and location of the
      public hearing after a written request for a public hearing is made. Any written request for a
     public hearing must_be submitted to the County within seven (7) calendar days of the
      publication date of the original public notice. If the County does not receive a written request
      from an interested party to hold a public hearing, the County may hold a public hearing, but is
      not required to hold a public hearing. The public hearing, if held, shall be for the purpose of
      receiving public comment on the County’s draft Findings.
STAT. AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
STATS. IMPLEMENTED:         ORS   279C.335
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XX/XX/XX]
                                                                   XXX eff

3.20.049.0800 Required Contract Clauses. The County shall include in all Public Improvement
Contracts the following required Contractual conditions:
a) The Contractor shall make payment promptly, as due, to all persons supplying to the Contractor
    labor or material for the performance of the work provided for in the Contract (see ORS
     279C.505(1)(a)).
b)   The Contractor shall pay all contributions or amounts due the Industrial Accident Fund from
     the Contractor or subcontractor incurred in the performance of the Contract. See ORS
     279C.505(1)(b).
     The Contractor shall not permit any lien or claim to be filed or prosecuted against the County
     on account of any labor or material furnished (see ORS 279C.505(1)(c)).
     The Contractor shall pay to the Department of Revenue all sums withheld from employees
     under ORS 316.167 (see ORS 279C.505(1)(d)).
     The Contractor shall demonstrate that an employee drug testing program is in place (see ORS
     279C.505(2)).
     The Contractor shall salvage or recycle construction and demolition debris if feasible and cost-
     effective. If the Contract includes lawn and landscape maintenance, the Contractor shall

                                                                                                   Exhibit A
                                                                                               Page 23 of 25
     compost or mulch yard waste material at an approved site if feasible and cost-effective (see
     ORS 279C.510(1)).
3) The Contractor and any subcontractor shall promptly pay, as due, all persons supplying labor
     and services furnished to the Contractor or first-tier subcontractor by any person in connection
     with this Contract as the claim becomes due. If the Contractor or subcontractor fails to pay any
     such claim, the County may pay the claim and charge the payment against the funds due or to
     become due the Contractor by reason of the Contract (see ORS 279C.515(1)).
h)   The Contractor and/or any first-tier subcontractor shall make payment to any person furnishing
     labor or materials in connection with a Public Improvement Contract within 30 days after
     receipt of payment from the County or the Contractor. If the Contractor or a first-tier
     subcontractor fails, neglects, or refuses to pay a person within 30 days after receiving payment,
     the Contractor or first-tier subcontractor shall owe the person the amount due plus interest
     charges that shall begin at the end of the 10-day period within which payment is due under
     ORS 279C.580(4) and shall end upon final payment, unless payment is subject to a good faith
     dispute as defined in ORS 279C.580. The rate of interest on the amount due is 9 percent per
     annum. The amount of interest may not be waived (see ORS 279C.515(2)).
     If the Contractor or a subcontractor fails, neglects, or refuses to pay a person that provides
     labor or materials in connection with a Public Improvement Contract, that person may file a
     complaint with the Construction Contractors Board, unless payment is subject to a good faith
     dispute as defined in ORS 279C.580 (see ORS 279C.515(3)).
d    The Contractor may not employ an employee for more than 10 hours in any one day, or 40
     hours in any one week, except in cases of necessity, emergency or when the public policy
     absolutely requires otherwise, and in such cases, the Contractor shall pay the employee at least
     time and a half pay for:
         (i)    All overtime in excess of:
                 1. Eight hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week if the work week is five
                     consecutive days, Monday through Friday; or
                2. Ten hours in any one day or 40 hours in any one week if the work week is four
                     consecutive days, Monday through Friday; and
         Gi)    All work the employee performs on Saturday and on any legal holiday specified in
                ORS 279C.540 (see ORS 279C.520(1)(a)).
k)   The Contractor shall comply with the prohibition set forth in ORS 652.220, that compliance is
     a material element of the Contract, and that a failure to comply is a breach that entitles the
     County to terminate the Contract for cause (see ORS 279C.520(1)(b)).
)    The Contractor may not prohibit any of the Contractor’s employees from discussing the
     employee’s rate of wage, salary, benefits, or other compensation with another employee or
     another person and may not retaliate against an employee who discusses the employee’s rate
     of wage, salary, benefits, or other compensation with another employee or another person (see
     ORS 279C.520(1)(c)).
m) The Contractor shall give notice in wilting to all its employees providing labor or services
   under a Public Improvement Contract, either at the time of hire or before work begins on the
   Contract, or by posting a notice in a location frequented by employees, of the number of hours

                                                                                            Exhibit A
                                                                                        Page 24 of 25
     per day and days per week that the Contractor may require the employees to work (see ORS
     279C.520(2)).
     The Contractor and any subcontractor shall comply with all applicable provisions of federal,
     state, or local statutes, ordinances, and regulations dealing with the prevention of
     environmental pollution and the preservation of natural resources that affect the Work under a
     Public Improvement Contract (see ORS 279C.525).
     The Contractor shall promptly, as due, make payment to any person, co-partnership,
     association, or corporation furnishing medical, surgical, and hospital care services, or the
     needed care and attention incident to sickness or injury, to the employees of the Contract, of
     all sums that the Contractor agrees to pay for the services and all moneys and sums that the
     Contractor collected or deducted from the wages of employees under any law, contract, or
     agreement for the purpose of providing or paying for the services (see ORS 279C.530(1)).
p)   If the Contractor is a subject employer, the Contractor shall comply with ORS 656.017 (see
   ORS 279C.530(2)).
q) The Contractor shall comply with ORS 279C.550 to 279C.570 regarding withholding of
     retainage. The withholding of retainage by the Contractor shall be done only in accordance
     with ORS 701.420 and 701.430.
     The Contractor shall certify that all subcontractors performing work described in ORS
     701.005(2) have registered with the Construction Contractors Board or are otherwise licensed
     by the State Landscape Contractors Board in accordance with ORS 701.035 to 701.055 before
     the subcontractors commence work under the Contract.
     The Contractor shall not discriminate against a disadvantaged business enterprise, a minority-
     owned business, a woman-owned business, a Veteran-owned business-thate-service-disabled
     yeteran—owns, or an emerging small business, in the awarding of subcontracts (see ORS
     279A.110).
STAT, AUTH.: ORS 279A.065
Stats. IMPLEMENTED: ORS 297C.505 -279C.570
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 924 eff 05/17/23; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE XX/XX/KX]
                                                                   XXX eff

                                                                                         Exhibit A
                                                                                     Page 25 of 25