BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                                FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                               SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Zone Change from EF-40                                 )
Exclusive Farm Use, to AF-40 Agriculture/Forestry,                                    )   Ordinance 886
Applicants Jay Alan Shue and Karen Marie Swenson,                                     )
Tax Lots 4520-200 and 4520-300, Planning Docket Z-02-13                               )
and Declaring an Emergency                                                            )
           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on January 23, 2014, Commissioners Mary P. Stern, Allen
Springer, and Kathy George being present.

                IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Jay Alan Shue and Karen Marie Swenson applied.
for a Zone Change from EF-40, Exclusive Farm Use, to AF-40, Agriculture/Forestry, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at a
duly noticed public hearing on January 2, 2014 and, hearing no objections and being satisfied that
the approval standards were met, voted unanimously to approve the application, NOW,
THEREFORE,                           ;

                THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: that the application is approved for the reasons
stated in the findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference.
The Yamhill County Zoning Map is amended as shown in Exhibit "B," also incorporated into this
ordinance by reference.                    This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill                   County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
immediately.

                DONE this 23rd day of January, 2014, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                                 yah   HILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

BRIAN VAN BERGEN                                  cE
County Clerk                                                                          MARY P. STERN

                                                              uh
Deputy ‘Anne. Britt                   ,                   i missioner                 CALLEN SPRINGER

ee                      AS TO FORM:
     ape                                                Commissiofer )         OO      KATHY GEORGE

wl Sadlo, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                                    Bo. l4-4
PAUserstsadlot\Land Usc\Ordinance886,wpd
                               EXHIBIT A ~ ORDINANCE 886
                                FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

DOCKET NO.:                   Z-02-13

REQUEST:                      Zone      change   from         EF-40,     Exclusive   Farm   use   to   AF-40,
                              Agriculture/Forestry

APPLICANTS:                   Jay Alan Shue and Karen Marie Swenson

TAX LOTS:                     4520-200 and 300

LOCATION:                     20100 SW Peavine Road, McMinnville

CRITERIA:                     Sections    402, 403      and     1208.03    of the Yamhill    County    Zoning
                              Ordinance; the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and
                              Policies.

COMMENTS:                     Public Works — No conflicts.
                              SWCD - No response.
                              McMinnville Rural Fire Department - No response.
                              DLCD - No response.
                              Water Master - No response.

FINDINGS:

A.   Background Facts:

1.   Tract size: Tax Lot 4520-200          is approximately            8.6 acres and Tax    Lot 4520-300    is
     approximately 40 acres.

     Access: Peavine Road.

     On-site Land Use:     Tax Lot 200 has several outbuildings with various livestock, a pasture,
     fruit trees and forested areas. Tax Lot 300 has a dwelling, a barn and animal sheds. The
     parcel is primarily forested with some pasture land and a pond for livestock, and is also
     used to grow crops including hops.

     Surrounding Land Use:        The area is predominately forested with some rural residences
     and small farm uses.

     Surrounding Zoning: Land to the east and west is zoned EF-40.                     Land to the north is
     zoned AF-80 and to the south is zoned AF-40, Agriculture/Forestry.

     Water:   On-site well.

     Sewage Disposal:      There is currently a septic system serving the dwelling.

     Fire Protection:    McMinnville Rural Fire District.

                                                                                                  Bo. 4-4
Exhibit A — Ordinance 886
Findings for Approval
Page 2

         Soils:      The   Yamhill   County   Soil    Survey      Maps     show     the   majority    of the tract is
         Willakenzie (WkD and WeE), high-value farmland.

10.      Taxes: Tax Lot 200 is receiving farm deferral. Tax Lot 300, 38 acres is receiving forest
         deferral, one acre is receiving farm deferral and one acre is at market value.

11.      Overlay Zones: None.

12.      Previous Actions: In 1983, a zone change application (Docket Z-247-83) was approved to
         change Tax Lot 4520-300 from a mixture of AF-20 and EF-40 to AF-20. Then an
         application for a partition (Docket #P-1374-84) of Tax Lot 4520-300 was approved which
         created two 20 acre parcels. The property is one tax lot (4520-300), however, it is
         comprised of two 20 acre parcels. In response to House Bill 3661 (1993), the property was
         rezoned back to EF-40 Exclusive Farm at the direction of the staff of the Department of
         Land Conservation and Development. The EF-40 zoning became effective on December
         29, 1993.

         Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis
iP

         The decision on the requested zone change is based on a determination that the request
         complies with the review criteria found in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning
         Ordinance, as follows:

         Review Criteria for Amendments                      to   er     within     Exclusive      Farm     Use    and
         Agricultural/Forestry Zones

         A quasi-judicial zone change to (1) amend the designation of land from Exclusive Farm
          Use, Agriculture/Forestry, or Forest to another of these zones, or (2) change the minimum
         lot size of land designated Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry, may be
         authorized, pursuant to Subsection 1208.01, provided that the request satisfies all
         applicable requirements of this ordinance, and also provided that the applicant
         demonstrates compliance with the following criteria:

         A,       The proposed       amendment       shall    comply      with    the goals,    policies,   and   other
                  applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan.

         B.       The proposed designation shall be appropriate for the existing or intended use of
                  the property.

         Cc       The proposed amendment shall result in an area of at least 160 contiguous acres
                  with the requested designation, including adjacent land.

         Dd.      For proposed changes within or to an Exclusive Farm Use designation, the new
                  minimum lot size shall be appropriate to maintain the existing commercial
                  agricultural enterprise in the area.
Exhibit A — Ordinance 886
Findings for Approval
Page 3

         EB.    For proposed changes within or to an Agriculture/Forestry designation, the new
                minimum lot size shall be shown to assure:

                f.      The opportunity for economically efficient forest and agriculture practices
                        typically occurring in the area; and

                Z.      The opportunity for the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree
                        species; and

                3.      The conservation of other forest values found on forest lands.

         EF.    Any   amendment    that would change    the zone   map   designation     to reduce   the
                minimum      lot size on property within an Exclusive Farm                  Use or
                Agriculture/Forestry district shall not be granted final approval by Yamhill County
                until the amendment has been considered and approved by the Land Conservation
                and Development Commission pursuant to ORS 215.780(2).           The following rules
                shall apply:

                Ll.     Conditional approval.    Following receipt of an application for a zone
                        change as otherwise provided by this ordinance, the county shall determine
                        whether to grant or deny the application in accordance with criteria
                        established in this section 1208.03. If the application is granted, the
                        county shall enter an order of conditional approval,           subject to final
                        approval by the Land Conservation and Development Commission.

                2.      Referral of Order of Conditional Approval. After conditional approval by
                        Yamhill County, the application, county findings, order of conditional
                        approval and a request for Commission action shall be referred to the
                        Department of Land Conservation and Development.

                3.      Final   Approval.   An   amendment    conditionally    approved    by   Yamhill
                        County shall not take effect until the county adopts an order or ordinance
                        authorizing final approval after receipt of written confirmation of the
                        county's conditional approval by the Land Conservation and Development
                        Commission.

         The above criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.5 below.

         Regarding criterion (A), applicable goals from the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land
         Use Plan, Section I1.A.1, Goal reads:

                To conserve Yamhill County ’s farm lands for the production of crops and livestock
                and to ensure that the conversion of farm land to urban use where necessary and
                appropriate occurs in an orderly and economical manner.

         Section II.A.2, Goal reads:
Exhibit A — Ordinance 886
Findings for Approval
Page 4

                   To conserve Yamhill County’   soil resources in a manner reflecting their suitability
                   for forestry, agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the
                   purposes designated on the county plan map.

         Section JI.B.1, Goal reads:

                   To conserve and to manage efficiently the county’s forest and range resources,
                   thereby ensuring a sustained yield of forest products, adequate grazing areas for
                   domestic livestock, habitat for fish and wildlife, protection of forest soils and
                   watershed, and preservation of recreational opportunities.

         The zone change would be consistent with the current mixture of agriculture and forest
         uses existing on the property. The proposed zone, AF-40, recognizes and allows both
         farming and forestry uses. This mixed use zoning would more accurately reflect the
         existing uses on the subject property. The applicant is not proposing an urban use; the
         minimum lot size is to remain 40 acres.

         According to the Yamhill County Soil Survey, all of the property is capable of producing
         timber.    The timber yields of the soils vary from 145 to 160 cubic feet per acre per year.
         In addition, the soils are also classified as high-value farmland. The requested zone change
         will recognize the potential for farm and forestry uses on the land and preserve the
         County’s soil resources for their suitability for farm and forest use.

         Regarding criterion (B), as mentioned above, the subject parcel is a mixture of farm and
         forest use; the zone change from an exclusive farm zone to an agriculture and forestry zone
         would more accurately reflect the existing and potential use of the property.

         Regarding criterion (C), the subject parcels proposed for rezoning are approximately 48.6
         acres. The total contiguous area after the rezoning would be approximately 169.4 acres.
         This is over the 160-acres required; therefore, the request is consistent with criterion (C).

         Regarding criteria (D), (E) and (F):    the applicant wishes to keep the minimum lot size at
         40 acres, The 40-acre minimum in the farm and forestry zone was approved by the Land
         Conservation and Development Commission through the process passed by the Oregon
         State Legislature (see HB 3661 passed in 1993). Since the minimum lot size is not
         changing, criteria (D), (E) and (F) are not applicable.

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

1.       The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change from Exclusive
         Farm use EF-40 to AF-40 Agriculture/Forestry.

         The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

         The zone change is appropriate in that the parcel is a mixture of farm and forestry uses.
         Neither the farm zone, nor the forestry zone alone would be appropriate for this area.
Exhibit A ~ Ordinance 886
Findings for Approval
Page 5

4.     The proposed change is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.03.

Based on the above findings and conclusions, the request by Jay Alan Shue and Karen Marie
Swenson, for a zone change from EF-40, Exclusive Farm Use to AF-40, Agriculture/Forestry Use
on Tax Lots 4520-200 and 300, is approved.
                  EXHIBIT B - MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 886
                                ZONE CHANGE
        ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                               JANUARY 23, 2014
                         FOR A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                         EF-40, EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                      TO
                       AF-40, AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY

  300

        | LEBOLD RD

                      80a

—®             SOC    ae Bac                  /   602

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOTS 4520-200 AND -300 AS HIGHLIGHTED ABOVE. APPROXIMATE
SCALE - 1 INCH = 500 FEET

                                                                    p.0.\4~4 |