Wa

                                                                           cin 60 acc 137
                IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                  OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                    FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                       SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

     In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the
     Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974) to

                                                          SS
     Change the Designation from Agriculture/
     Forestry Small Holding to Commercial

                                                          OO
     Amending the Official Zoning Map from
     Agriculture/Forestry (AF-10) to Recreation                    ORDINANCE 606 |
     Commercial (RC) on Approximately 9 Acres,
     Tax Lot 6801-3300;     Applicant Gene Zinda and
     Alan Hay; Planning Docket PAZ-6-95; Effective
     August 6, 1996.

              THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON ("the Board")
     sat for the transaction of county business in special session on May 8, 1996, Commissioners Robert
     Johnstone, Thomas E.E. Bunn, and Dennis L. Goecks being present;

            WHEREAS,      on December 11, 1995, the Department of Planning and Development received
     an application from Gene Zinda and Alan Hay ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-6-95, to change
     the comprehensive plan designation from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Commercial and
     the official Zoning Map from Agriculture/Forestry (AF-10) to Recreation Commercial (RC), on an
     approximately 9 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 6801-3300; and

             WHEREAS, on February 1, 1996 the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public
     hearing to consider the application and continued the matter to March 7, 1996, at which time the
     application failed to receive five votes required for approval and the Planning Commission referred
     the matter with their comments to the Board; and

            WHEREAS, on April 3, 1996, the Board held a public hearing on the application at which
     testimony and evidence were received, and the matter was continued to April 10, 1996, and that
     following the close of the hearing and the record, the Board deliberated and by vote of 2 to 1 (with
     Commissioner Bunn voting against) tentatively approved the application for the comprehensive plan
     amendment and zone change, and directed staff to prepare an ordinance and findings in support of
     approval; and

             WHEREAS, the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated
     herein by this reference provide a justification for approval of the application; and

            WHEREAS, on April 24, 1996, the Board met and heard the first reading of this ordinance
     and thereafter heard the second reading on May 8, 1996; and

                                                                                          ORDINANCE 606
                                                                                                    Page 1
                                                                                      rx 60 vce 138
           WHEREAS, the attached Exhibit "A" demonstrates that the proposed amendments to the Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map, and Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County are in the best interests
of the citizens of Yamhill County, NOW THEREFORE,

           THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS HEREBY ORDAINS                                         as follows:

        Section 1.    The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan and Plan Map (1974) are hereby amended
as specified in the attached Exhibit "B", made part of this ordinance by reference, to reflect a plan
designation of "Commercial" on the parcel described and shown in Exhibit "B".

        Section 2.      The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended as specified in the
attached Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning designation of "Recreation Commercial" on the parce! described and
shown on Exhibit "B".

           Section 3.               The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference are hereby
adopted in support of this ordinance.

           Section 4.               Tn accordance with ORS 203.045(9), this ordinance shall become effective on August
6, 1996.

AYES:                       Commissioners Johnstone and Goecks.

NAYS:               ’       Commissioner Bunn.

           DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 8th day of May, 1996.

           BANA
              ME Gy 9
AT PES TOA                  de,                           YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                          Conia             (] ROBERT JOHNSTONE
                                                            /
                                                           Ther                 €.€. Arn
                                                          Commissioner           THOMAS     E.E. BUNN

APPROVED                AS TO FORM         BY:

   Of         ces       A       .                                           -
  Magy                                                        Sa                 heel                A—
JOHN C. PINKSTAFF                                         Commissioner           DENNIS L. GOECKS
Yamhill Assistant County Counsel

HA\admin\pinkstj\lu\ord606.2

                                                                                                  ORDINANCE 606
                                                                                                          Page 2
                                              EXHIBIT "A"                        rid    60 vce       199
                                              Ordinance 606

    PLANNING COMMISSION REFERRAL:                   March 7, 1996

    ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                            April 24, 1996

    DOCKET:                       PAZ-6-95

    REQUEST:                      Zone change from AF-10, Agriculture Forestry, to RC, Recreation
                                  Commercial; Comprehensive Plan map amendment from Agricul-
                                  ture Forestry Small Holding to Commercial,      for the purpose of
                                  allowing an RV park.

    APPLICANT:                    Gene Zinda and Alan Hay

    TAX LOT:                      6801-3300

    LOCATION:                     At the southwest corner of the intersection of Grand Ronde Road
                                  and Highway 22.

    LOT SIZE:                     9 acres

    REVIEW CRITERIA:              Section 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

    FINDINGS:

    A.     Background Facts

    1.      Proposal:   The applicants are requesting a zone change and comprehensive plan
    amendment in order to develop this property into an RV park. No details as to the exact design
    of the RV park have been provided at this time. Site design review and compliance with Section
    1003 of the YCZO, Travel Trailer Parks, will be required prior to the start of any development.

    2.      Access: The property is adjacent to Grand Ronde Road and Highway 22. Approval from
    the Oregon Department of Transportation would be required in order to directly access the state
    highway. ODOT has indicated that it is unlikely that access to the highway would be approved
    since alternative access is available from Grand Ronde Road.

    3.      On-Site Land Use: The property is currently undeveloped but apparently has been used
    for agriculture in the past. Agency Creek forms the western property line. Topography is
    generally level except near the creek.

    4.     Surrounding Land Use and Zoning:      The surrounding area contains a mixture of land uses
—

    and zoning districts.   Land on the eastern side of Grand Ronde Road is zoned VLDR-2.5 and

                                                                                   Exhibit "A" - Page 1
                                                                                        Ordinance 606
                                                                        rin OO race 140
consists of a number of small lots developed with residences. Land directly north of the subject
property is zoned Public Assembly Institutional and is developed with a church. Other lands to
the north are also zoned VLDR-2.5 and are developed with residences, although the average lot
size in this area is larger than the residential area to the east. The northeast corner of the
intersection is zoned Neighborhood Commercial and contains a commercial building that appears
to have been used as a store, but is now closed.      Lands to the west and south are zoned AF-10.
The nearest agricultural or forest resource land is more than 1/4 mile away.

5.      Water:    The property is within the Grand Ronde Water District.     A letter in the file from
the water district indicates that they have adequate water supply to serve the proposed RV park.

6.       Sewage Disposal: The property is within the Grand Ronde Sewer District. A letter in the
file from the sewer district indicates that they have adequate sewer capacity to serve the proposed
development.

7.      Fire Protection:      The property is within the Willamina Rural Fire District, who have
indicated that there would be no conflicts related to providing fire service to the site.

8.      Taxes:   The property is receiving a farm tax deferral.

9.      Soils:   Sheet 53 of the Soil Survey shows that the area consists entirely of Grand Ronde
silty clay loam, Class III.    This soil is not high-value farmland.

10.     Previous Actions:      The parcel was created by partitioning in 1984 (docket P-1396-84).

B.      Zone Change Review Criteria and Analysis

1.      The request must comply with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County Zoning
Ordinance (YCZO) Section 1208.02.          These provisions are:

        "A.      That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and
                 any other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

        "B.      That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses
                 allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such
                 uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market
                 demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and
                 location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
                 allowed by the zone.

        "C.      That the proposed change is appropriate considering the sur-
                 rounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the
                 area, any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity to

                                                                                   Exhibit "A" - Page 2
                                                                                         Ordinance 606
                                                                       rik BO rxce 141
               support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and
               services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
               district.

        "D.    That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed
               use are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated
               uses due to location, size, or other factors.

        "E.    That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Ad-
               ministrative Rules for exceptions, if applicable."

       These criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.6, below.

2.     The Board finds that the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, as required by YCZO       § 1208.02A.

2.1    Regarding Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, Policy (h) of Goal I.G.1 addresses
commercial development:

       “Recreational commercial uses will be encouraged to locate within urban growth
       areas or in compatible urban commercial areas where their location and space
       requirements can be most satisfactorily fulfilled."

        An RV park normally requires a larger lot than would be found in an urban commercial
area. Grand Ronde is an unincorporated community, so has no defined urban growth boundary.
The subject property is approximately one mile from the center of the community, so is consistent
with this policy.

2.2    Policy (j) of Goal II.C.1. addresses stream protection, as follows:

       "It is the policy of Yamhill County to protect riparian vegetation from damage that
       may result from land use applications for development that is otherwise permitted
       outright or conditionally under county zoning regulations. To achieve this goal,
       Yamhill County will review land use applications for development in riparian
       vegetation that might result from the development. For purposes of this policy,
        "riparian areas” refers to areas within 100 feet measured horizontally from the
       ordinary high water line of streams identified as "Fish habitat” in the compre-
       hensive plan inventory (Natural) Resource Conservation Plan, Yamhill County,
       Oregon May 1979 - U.S.D.A - Soil Conservation Services), that are not regulated
       under the Forest Practices Act.”

        Agency Creek, which borders the western property line of the site, is shown as a spawning
and rearing stream for resident trout and anadromous fish. Consequently, any future commercial

                                                                                Exhibit "A" - Page 3
                                                                                      Ordinance 606
                                                                                rin OO vace ‘Uae
     development will be required to maintain the 100 foot setback required by the Comprehensive
     Plan.

     3.     The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed
     by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy
     of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and
     location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone, as required
     by YCZO §1208.02B.

     3.1     There is a demonstrable need for the proposed RV park. Construction of the Spirit
     Mountain casino has led to an increase in the number of people visiting the Grand Ronde area,
     and this will generate those visitors who might be interested in overnight RV accommodations.
     There are no other lands in this area of Yamhill County that are zoned to allow an RV park. A
     small RV park currently exists in Polk County in the Fort Hill area. An RV park with 72 sites,
     located on the south side of Highway 18, east of Fire Hall Road, was recently approved by Polk
     County. The Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde also have plans to build an RV park
     adjacent to the casino. The applicants submitted information from a number of RV clubs in the
     region attesting to the need for additional RV parks in the area. Given the high volume of traffic
     on highway 18 there is a demonstrable need for four RV parks in the Fort Hill/Grand Ronde area.

     4.       The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
     uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred
     in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services
     likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district, as required by YCZO
rm

     §1208.02C.

     4.1      The primary surrounding land use is residential, with higher density to the east and north
     and lower density and larger lot sizes to the west and south.            There is a potential for
     incompatibilities between the established residential areas and the transient visitors who would
     patronize the RV park, although existing roads and the Agency Creek riparian area would provide
     some buffering, which will mitigate possible conflicts relate to noise, lighting and increased
     traffic. The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
     uses.

     4.2      The primary change which has occurred in the area which supports the need for the
     proposed amendment is the development of the Spirit Mountain casino, which is attracting visitors
     to the area and has presumably produced a need for overnight accommodations for casino patrons.
     The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the density and pattern of
     development in the area, and any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity to support the
     proposed amendment.

     4.3      Regarding the availability of utilities and services that will be needed by the RV park, the
     applicant has.submitted letters indicating that the subject property could be served by the Grand
     Ronde Community Water Association and Grand Ronde Sanitary District. The availability of
     these utilities makes this site more appropriate for an RV park than most other areas of the county,

                                                                                       Exhibit "A" - Page 4
                                                                                            Ordinance 606
                                                                       rick 60 vce 143
which would have to rely on septic systems and wells. The Willamina Fire District, which serves
the area, has not indicated any problems with providing fire protection services.

4.4     The adequacy of the existing transportation system requires consideration. Several letters
have been submitted, and testimony was offered at the Planning Commission hearing expressing
concerns about traffic safety, particularly at the intersection of Grand Ronde Road and Highway
22. The applicants have submitted a traffic impact study prepared by Associated Transportation
Engineering and Planning (ATEP). That study indicates that an RV park at the site will generate
approximately 320 vehicle trips per weekend day. The study finds that this will have no net
impact on the surrounding street system, but does recommend construction of a 150" left turn lane
for northbound traffic into the site from Grand Ronde Road.

        OAR 660-12, the Transportation Planning Rule that administers Goal 12, requires that any
amendment to the Comprehensive Plan that will affect a transportation facility must assure that
the allowed use is consistent with the function, capacity and level of service of the facility. Since
the ATEP study indicates that the RV park would not change the functional classification of the
roads in the area, the proposed zone change and comprehensive plan amendment comply with
requirements of the Transportation Planning Rule. The Director of Public Works has indicated
a specific concern about pedestrian traffic in the area and the Jack of shoulders or other safe
walking areas.

        The Board finds that compliance with this provision in YCZO §1208.02C will be assured
by imposing a condition which will require the applicants to construct a left turn lane into the site
on Grand Ronde Road, and provide a paved shoulder for bicycle and pedestrian traffic adjacent
to the site.

4.5.    The Yamhill County Department of Public Works indicated staff reviewed the file and find
no conflicts with our interests. Any new road approaches to the county road will require a permit.
ODOT submitted a letter expressing concerns about impact on the transportation network. The
project is subject to the Transportation Planning Rule, which requires that the use be consistent
with the function, capacity and level of services of transportation facilities. Traffic would have
a direct impact on Highways 18 and 22, and add to congestion at the Highway 18 - Highway 22
and Highway 18 - Grand Ronde Road intersections. ODOT requests that a transportation impact
study be prepared by the applicant and approved by both the county and ODOT prior to approval
of the zone change. Access to the site from Highway 22 is unlikely to be approved. In response
to ODOT's concerns, applicants submitted a transportation impact study for approval by both the
county and ODOT.

        The Board finds that the transportation impact study satisfies the concerns expressed by
ODOT, and that the proposed change is appropriate considering the availability of utilities and
services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

5.     The Board finds that other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are
either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other
factors, as required by YCZO §1208.02D as follows.

                                                                                  Exhibit "A" - Page 5
                                                                                         Ordinance 606
                                                                                    rik OO rxce 144
       5.1     The RC district is the only zoning district that permits private RV parks. (The Parks,
       Recreation and Open Space, PRO district allows public travel trailer parks, such as might be
amin

       operated by the State Parks Department, but not private parks.) The applicants have indicated that
       this location has been chosen in order to be within reasonable distance of the Spirit Mountain
       casino.

               There is no other land in Yamhill County zoned RC within the vicinity of the casino
       (although, as discussed in Finding B.3, there is other land in Polk County that may be rezoned
       for an RV park, and there is tribal land near the casino which may be used for an RV park).
       There is other undeveloped land zoned RC near the Flying M Ranch, but its location is obviously
       not as well-suited to serve casino clientele. All other land in the county zoned RC is already
       developed.

       6.      The Board finds that the amendment complies with YCZO §1208.02E. The property is
       zoned AF-10, so an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3 and 4 has already been taken. As
       indicated in Finding B.4, the request is consistent with Goal 12, the Transportation Planning Rule,
       so an exception to that goal is not required.

       CONCLUSIONS:

       1.      The request is for an amendment to the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan map from
       Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Commercial, and a zone change from AF-10
       Agriculture/Forestry to RC Recreation Commercial.

       2.         The proposal complies with the criteria YCZO   §1208.02.

       DECISION:

       Based on the findings and conclusions, the request for a zone change from AF-10 to RC, and a
       Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture Forestry Small Holding to Commercial for the
       purpose of allowing an RV park on Tax Lot 6801-3300, is hereby approved, subject to the
       following conditions:

       1.      Prior to any development of the property, the applicant shall receive site design approval,
       pursuant to Section 1101 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

       2.    Any development shall maintain a 100 foot setback from the normal high water mark of
       Agency Creek, and all existing riparian vegetation shall be maintained within this setback area.

       3.       At the time of site development, the developers shall be responsible for construction of a
       150 foot long left turn lane on Grand Ronde Road to provide access to northbound traffic, and
       shall widen the shoulders along Grand Ronde Road adjacent to the site for pedestrian and bicycle
       traffic. In the alternative, and if approved by the County Public Works Director, a bond may be
       posted to insure future construction of these improvements.
       H:\admin\pinkstj\lu\96. 114

                                                                                        Exhibit "A" - Page 6
                                                                                             Ordinance 606
                                                            ix     GO race 145
     EXHIBIT        "B" FOR        ORDINANCE            No.       606
                ZONING AND COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
                        MAP AMENDMENT
                 TO CHANGE THE ZONING MAP
                       DESIGNATION FROM
       "AF-10" AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY SMALL HOLDING
               TO "RC" RECREATION COMMERCIAL

                         STATE     HIGHWAY     22

                                               RD
                                               RONDE
                                               GRAND

                                                                 NOT TO SCALE

                           AREA SUBJECT TO COMPREHENSIVE
                           PLAN AND ZONE MAP AMENDMENT
                           TAX LOT 6801-3300

PREPARED   BY YAMHILL   COUNTY   DEPARTMENT   OF PLANNING   AND    DEVELOPMENT

                                                                 ORDINANCE      = 606
                                                                 Exhibit "B"