Film 92
                                                                                                             218

                                                                                          06
                                                                                         ory
                                                                                                 NOY
                                                                                                  Hy
                                                                                                        -8
                                                                                                       OO
                                                                                                                P2
                                                                                                                99
                                                                                                                   °36
                                                                                                                   +24

                IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                   FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                         SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Request for a Comprehensive Plan                  )
Amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to                             )
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding, a zone change from EF-40                     )
Agriculture/Forestry Use to AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small                     )             Ordinance 793
Holding, Taking an exception to Goal 3, Docket PAZ-02-05,                        )
Tax Lots 5413-1700, -1701, -1900, and -1901, Applicant                           )
Dennis Walker, and Declaring an Emergency                                        )

         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for the
transaction of county business on Wednesday, November 8, 2006, Commissioners Leslie Lewis, Kathy
George. and Mary P. Stern being present.

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Dennis Walker applied for a Comprehensive Plan
amendment and zone change from EF-40 Exclusive Farm Use to AF-10 and an exception to Goal 3 for four
existing lots.

        The Yamhill County Planning Commission held a duly noticed public hearing September 7, 2006
and voted 7-0 to recommend approval. A duly noticed public hearing was held October 4, 2006, before the
Yamhill County Board of Commissioners; the applicant and his counsel appeared and testified (there being
no opponents) and the Board voted 3-0 to approve the application.

           NOW, THEREFORE,      IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD:

   The application is approved as detailed in the Findings for Approval, Exhibit “A”, attached and hereby
incorporated into this ordinance. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage. A
map of the area is appended.

DONE   this 8" day of November, 2006, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                                   YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN                                             a           (T\.     (VAn prc
County Clerk                                                               LESLIE LEWIS

       f            [J
By: (WWM            £
Deputy Anne Britt                               issioner    1              =KARIY GEORGE
                                                \                     p ap F-        :
                                                    \                     SK
APPROVED AS TO FORM:                            J WM@do,                   \. a@Nun~
  I:           0                         Commissioner           \          MARY P. STERN
Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel          \\Yam-main\Admin\Users\sanair\LU\WalkerOrdinance.wpd

                                                                                                Bo-06-Ab
                                                                                             Film 92
                                                                                             219

EXHIBIT A                  FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

DOCKET          NO:        PAZ-02-05

REQUEST:                   For a Comprehensive Plan amendment        from Agriculture/Forestry Large
                           Holding to Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding; a zone change from EF-40
                           Exclusive Farm Use to AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding. The
                           application includes a request for an exception from Goal 3 (Agriculture).

APPLICANT:                 Dennis Walker

TAX LOTS:                  5413-1700, -1701, -1900, and -1901

LOCATION:                  On both sides of Kestrel Heights Road, Amity, Oregon

CRITERIA:                  Sections 402 and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance. Section
                           904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied. Comprehensive Plan policies
                           may be applicable. OAR 660-004 related to an exception and 660-012-0060
                           Transportation Planning Rule

FINDINGS:

A.      Background Facts:

            Subject area: approximately 19 acres.

        Access: Access to the subject parcels is provided by Kestrel Heights Road.

       On-site Land Use: The subject parcels are along a hilltop that slopes down to the east. Tax
Lot 5413-1701 is predominantly forested and slopes to the east. Similarly, Tax Lot 5413-1900 is
predominantly forested and has been almost completely planted to Douglas Fir. Tax Lot 5413-1900
slopes off gently to the east.      Tax lots 5413-1700   and -1900   are developed with single-family
residences.

         Surrounding Land Use: Generally, the surrounding area contains a mixture of farm, forest
and rural residential uses on five acre lots. Property to the west is predominantly forested. Land to
the east slopes down to the valley floor. The area to the east has larger parcels that grow grass and
grain crops. Property to the west is divided into five acre lots, is zoned AF-10, and is generally
forested.

       Surrounding Zoning: On Tax Lot -1701, property to the north, south and west is EF-40.
Zoning to the east is EF-80. On Tax Lot 1900 Zoning to the north and south is EF-40. Zoning to
the east is EF-80.    Zoning to the west is AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding.    While land to

                                                                                     B.0 O06 Ale
                                                                                                  Film 92
                                                                                                  220

the west is AF-10, the majority of the properties are five acre lots with single-family dwellings
established on them.

Water: To be provided by on-site wells.

Sewage Disposal: To be provided by on-site septic systems.

Fire Protection: Amity Rural Fire District

Soils: Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the parcels are composed of Jory and Kekia soils that
are rated agriculture Class II and III. These soils are classified as high-value farmland.

Taxes: None of the parcels is receiving farm or forestry deferral.

Previous Actions: Docket LOR-29-96 was a lot of record dwelling that was denied on Tax Lot 5413
-1900. Docket NFD-08-96 was a nonfarm dwelling approval on tax lot 5413-1700.

Floodplain: FIRM 410249 0320 C, shows that neither property, is within the 100-year flood hazard
area.

Fish and Wildlife:     The subject area is not identified as critical fish or wildlife habitat.

        Zone Change       and Plan Amendment        Provisions   and Analysis
>

L       Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards and
        criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

        (A)    The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other applicable
               provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

        (B)    There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
               requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
               economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
               the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
               allowed by the zone.

        (C)    The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
               density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
               occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
               utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
               district.
                                                                                      Film 92
                                                                                      221

(D)   — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
          unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
          other factors.

(E)       The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
          exceptions, if applicable.

Regarding criterion (A) above, Plan goals and policies which may be pertinent are:

Policy I.B.1.c.: All proposed rural area development and facilities: ...(2) Shall not be located
in any natural hazard area, such as a floodplain or area of geologic hazard, steep slope,
severe drainage problems or soil limitations for building or sub-surface sewage disposal,
if relevant;

The property is not within the 100 year floodplain, as shown on FIRM 410249 0320 C.
There are some slopes but there appears to be more than adequate area for construction of
residences on each existing parcel. Each property has a site evaluation for an on-site septic
system.

Policy I.B.1.d.: No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially influence
the extension of costly services and facilities normally associated with urban centers, such
as municipal water supply and sanitary sewerage or power, gas and telephone services, nor
shall it impose inordinate additional net costs on mobile, centralized public services, such
as police and fire protection, school busing or refuse collection.

The proposed zone change would not require the extension of utilities or services to the area.
Water and sewer would need to be provided by on-site systems.            Other services such as
electricity, telephone, sheriff and fire protection already serve the existing residents in the
area.

Policy I.B.2.a.: Yamhill County will continue to recognize that the appropriate location of
very low density residential development is in designated large areas where commitments
to such uses have already been made through existing subdivision, partitioning, or
development and by virtue of close proximity to existing urban centers; or in small, limited
areas having unique scenic, locational and other suitable site qualities where the anticipated
magnitude or density of development is not such as to require more than a very basic level
of services, such as single local-road access, individual domestic wells and sewage-disposal
systems, and possible rural fire protection.

The Walnut Hill No. 2 subdivision was platted April 6, 1911.         The subdivision itself does
not commit the area to residential use. However, this subdivision is adjacent to the Hillcrest
Walnut Plantings subdivision and the Woodland Heights subdivision. These adjacent
subdivisions were excepted from Goal 3 in Exceptions Statement II (ESII), adopted by the
                                                                                               Film 92
                                                                                               222

       Board of Commissioners April 23, 1980.         The subject property was excluded from this
       rezoning. The property is not near any urban centers. It is adjacent to a large area to the west
       which is committed to rural residential development.

       Policy II.A.1.h.: No proposed rural area development shall substantially impair or conflict
       with the use of farm or forest land, or be justified solely or even primarily on the argument
       that the land is unsuitable for farming or forestry or, due to ownership, is not currently part
       of an economic farming or forestry enterprise.

       It appears this zone change would cause little interference with the use of other farm and
       forest land in the vicinity. The closest farm use appears to be to the east where the property
       is in grass/grain production. The remainder of the surrounding area has some hobby farm
       uses. The applicant has shown, and the Board finds, that the property is not economically
       feasible for farm production but this is not the sole argument for rezoning the property.

       Regarding criterion (B), the applicant has shown, and the Board finds, there is an existing
       demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the requested zone, considering the
       importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market
       demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other lands so zoned
       and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone, as required by YCZO 1202.08(B).

       Traditionally, the county has looked at the amount of development in the nearby exception
       areas.   In this case the most recent development numbers we have are from, June 25, 1999.
       They looked at four study areas. The results are as follows:

Area | Zone            Existing Lots   | Developed Lots     | Vacant Lots | Potential New Lots
5.10   | AF-10              135                  99                 36                    28
5.11   | VLDR-5              98                  77                 21                     6
= Al
me,

       These numbers are the most recent available. A study of the county’s rural address map
       shows that additional development has occurred since these numbers were last updated.

       Regarding criterion (C), the proposed change was shown to be appropriate considering the
       surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which
       may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability
       of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.
       Surrounding land uses to the west are small residential lots. The property to the west was
       part of code area 5.11 in Exceptions Statement II.     In 1992 this area was evaluated as part
       of study area 64. The purpose of that study was to determine if there was enough
       development prior to the Statewide Planning Goals (SPG) to justify certain areas as being
                                                                                             Film 92
                                                                                             223

     built and committed to rural residential use. In the case of area 64 there were only a few lots
     developed prior to SPG. Therefore, area 64 was not rezoned. Rezoning a portion of area 64
     (which is essentially the applicant’s request) was not evaluated. In 1993 the Legislature
     passed House Bill 3661 which established, among other things, the “lot of record” dwelling
     standards. Many of the adjacent lots have been approved for development through a lot-of-
     record dwelling approval.

     Regarding the availability of utilities and services in the area, the lots in the surrounding area
     have on-site systems for sewer and water hook-ups. Other services such as electricity,
     telephone, sheriff and fire protection already serve the existing residents in the area.

     Regarding criterion (D), the applicant has shown, and the Board finds, that other lands in the
     county already designated for the proposed uses are either unavailable or not as well-suited
     for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other factors, as required by YCZO
     1202.08(D). As stated in Finding B.3, from June of 1999, 36 parcels were available and 28
     could potentially be created.

     Regarding the criterion (E), an exception to Goal 3 is required, as addressed in Section C of
     these findings below. Since the property is zoned for exclusive farm use an exception to
     Goal 4 is not required.

     Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis
IA

     Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-04 contains the requirements for taking an
     exception to the goals. The applicant applied for a “committed” exception.

     OAR 660-04-028 indicates that a committed exception may be taken when land is
     irrevocably committed to uses not allowed by the applicable goal because existing adjacent
     uses and other relevant factors make uses allowed by the goal impracticable. OAR 660-04-
     028(3) states in part that “Jt is the purpose of this rule to permit irrevocably committed
     exceptions where justified so as to provide flexibility in the application of broad resource
     protection goals. It shall not be required that local governments demonstrate that every use
     allowed by the applicable goal is "impossible." For exceptions to Goals 3 or 4, local
     governments are required to demonstrate that only the following uses or activities are
     impracticable:

             (a) Farm use as defined in ORS 215.203;
             (b) Propagation or harvesting of a forest product as specified in OAR 660-033-0120;
             and
             (c) Forest operations or forest practices as specified in OAR 660-006-0025(2)(a).”

     A two-part analysis is required. First, whether land is irrevocably committed depends on the
     relationship between the exception area and the lands adjacent to it. Findings must address
                                                                                          Film 92
                                                                                          224

the characteristics of the exception area; the characteristics of the adjacent lands; the
relationship between the exception area and the lands adjacent to it; and the other relevant
factors set forth in OAR 660-04-028(6). Second, for an exception to Goal 3, findings must
be made that farm uses are impracticable on the proposed exception area.

Characteristics of the exception area: The proposed exception area involves four parcels.
The exception area is in an existing subdivision with parcels of predominantly 5 acres. The
properties are along the top of a hillside that slopes down to the east. The properties appear
to be forested, with two of the four parcels developed with single-family residences.

Characteristics of the adjacent lands: All but one neighboring property surrounding these
parcels is between 3 to 8 acres. The only exception is the southeast corner of 5413-1900
which touches on a 45 acre piece of property. These two properties border each other for a
distance of 40 feet. Most of the surrounding area contains rural residential uses. Extensive
farm uses exist on the valley floor to the east.

The relationship between the exception area and the lands adjacent to it: The proposed
exception area is similar in character to the adjacent lands that are zoned AF-10. The size
of the four parcels is four to five acres. This is similar to the property that is in the AF-10
zone to the west. The majority of the dwellings placed in the Walnut Hill No. 2 subdivision
were done through the lot of record dwelling standards. The approval of the dwellings
through the lot of record dwelling standards was done soon after the adoption of the
Statewide Planning Goals and are considered dwellings not in conjunction with farm use.
Since the undeveloped lots are sandwiched between a nonfarm parcel and an exception area,
it makes them less likely to be put to farm or forestry use.

OAR 660-04-028(6) requires that findings for a committed exception address existing
adjacent uses; existing public facilities and services (water and sewer lines, etc.); parcel size
and ownership patterns of the exception area and adjacent lands; neighborhood and regional
characteristics; natural or man-made features or other impediments separating the exception
area from adjacent resource land; physical development; and other relevant factors. The
existing uses are addressed above. Regarding public facilities and services they are generally
available in the area. The main natural feature is the significant slope down to the east which
separates the smaller lots in the existing 5-acre subdivision from the existing farm uses to the
east.

Regarding the “irrevocably committed” standards, OAR 660-04-028(6)(c)(A) states in part:
Past land divisions made without application of the Goals do not in themselves demonstrate
 irrevocable commitment of the exception area.        Only if development (e.g., physical
 improvements such as roads and underground facilities) on the resulting parcels or other
factors make unsuitable their resource use or the resource use of nearby lands can the
parcels be considered to be irrevocably committed. OAR 660-04-028(6)(c)(B) also states,
 in part: The mere fact that small parcels exist does not in itself constitute irrevocable
                                                                                           Film 92
                                                                                           225

     commitment.     Small parcels in separate ownerships are more likely to be irrevocable
     committed if the parcels are developed, clustered in a large group or clustered around a
     road designed to serve these parcels.

     There are a substantial number of small parcels in separate ownerships which are developed
     and clustered around a road designed to serve these parcels. If the developed parcels were
     adjacent to the rural residential zone, their affect on potential farm use of the vacant lots
     would be less than having them sandwiched between nonfarm use and rural residential
     zoning. The Planning Commission determined, and the Board finds, that the existing
     development irrevocably commits the property to a rural residential use.

     Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis
IP

     The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing             Goal   12, must be
     addressed. OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

     (1)     Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
             regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that
             allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of
             service of the facility.   This shall be accomplished by either:
             (a)     Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                      capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;
             (b)     Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                     facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                      requirements of this division; or,
             (c)     Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                      demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

     (2)    A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
            facility if it:
             (a)      Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned transportation
                     facility;
             (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
             (c)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or
                      access which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
                      transportation facility; or
             (d)      Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                     acceptable level identified in the TSP.

     Regarding (1) and (2), the Public Works Department was sent a referral to determine if they
     have any concerns related to the use. The average trips per day for a single-family dwelling
     is 10. Based on an additional 20 vehicle trips per day it appears that the proposed residential
     use is consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of service of the local roads.
                                                                                                  Film 92
                                                                                                  226

CONCLUSION

Ls         The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change from Exclusive Farm
           Use, EF-40 to AF-10, including an exception to Goal 3.

a          The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

3.         An exception to Goal 3 is justified because the property is unsuitable for productive
           farming/forestry, and the adjacent small residential lots, roads, and uses contribute to the area
           being irrevocably committed to residential use.

4.         The proposed change is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.02.

=F         The proposed change complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

\\Yam-main\Admin\Users\sanair\LU\WalkerOrdinance.wpd
                                                                                                                     Film 92
                                                                                                                     227
                          EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 793
    _                    PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZONE CHANGE
.             ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                                         November 8, 2006
                   FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
          AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING TO AGRICULTURE/F ORESTRY
                                  SMALL HOLDING AND
                        TO CHANGE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP    FROM
                           EF-40 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY USE
                                          dite
                     AF-10 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY SMALL HOLDING

                                                                                             <a]
                             | )
                                                              =                            1701
                                      ¥ 21700                                                     |
                             2| “6 AC.
                                                                                       .

                                      ,   g                                            :

                             _!                 391.50
                                  |           388

                                                         8
.                                                                                                 .
                                                                       1901
                                                         _|            5AC.

                                                                  Ey

                                                         g

                                                                       1900
                                                                       5 AC.       :
                                                                               :
                                                         | :                   :

    em   CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOTS 5413-1700, 1701, 1900 and 1901                                    DESCRIBED ABOVE

         APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 300 FEET
                                                                                                                0. Ole-    46