This section and related information is available at
www.co.yamhill.or.us/plan/planning/ordinance/zoning_toc.asp

SECTION 900 B OVERLAY DISTRICTS

901. FLOODPLAIN OVER LAY DISTRICT (FP)
[Last Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

901.01 Purpose.

The purpose of the FP Overlay District is to promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and
to minimize public and private losses due to floo d damage by establishing methods and provisions
designed to recognize such hazards.

901.02 Area of Application

A. The provisions of this section shall apply to  all areas of special flood hazards in the county
identified as the FP Overlay District , and includes those areas of special flood hazard
identified by the Federal Insurance Administra tion in a scientific and engineering report
entitled AThe Flood Insurance Study for Yamhill County, Oregon and Incorporated Areas @
dated March 2, 2010, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), which study and
map are hereby adopted by reference and declared  to be a part of this ordinance. The Flood
Insurance Study and FIRM are on file at th e Yamhill County Department of Planning and
Development, McMinnville, Oregon. [Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

B. The FP Overlay District shall be combined with at least one (1) underlying zoning district, and
may be combined with any zoning district pursuant to this ordinance.  All property within the
FP Overlay District shall be subject both to the provisions of this section and to the provisions
of the underlying zoning district.  Nothing in th is section shall be construed as a waiver or
suspension of the provisions of any underlying zoning district.

901.03 Use of Other Base Flood Data.

In areas of the FP Overlay District for which flood elevation data are not provided by the FIRM in
accordance with subsection 901.02, th e applicant shall supply to the county other base flood elevation
and floodway data or any other evidence availabl e from governmental or private sources that is
identified by the county as data appropriate to de monstrate compliance with subsection 901.10 and the
flood protection standards of this section.

901.04 Floodplain Overlay District Use Provisions.

All uses of land and water provided for in the underl ying zoning district may be permitted in the FP
Overlay District, with the provisions that those uses shall require a floodplain development permit, and
shall be subject to the provisions set forth in subsection 901.05 through 901.14.  The following uses
shall not require a floodplain development permit unl ess the uses involve fill or are otherwise deter-
mined to constitute construction or development:

A. Residential uses such as lawns, ga rdens, parking areas and play areas.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-2
B. Agricultural uses such as farming, pasture,  grazing, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture,
viticulture, truck farming, forestry so d farming and wild crop harvesting.  [Amended 2/24/2010;
Ord.851]

901.05 Floodplain Development Permit Application.

Except as provided in subsection 901.04, a floodplain development permit shall be obtained before the
start of any construction or development, incl uding manufactured homes, within the FP Overlay
District.  In the event a variance is necessary for co nstruction within the floodplain, such application
shall be processed in conjunction with the floodplain permit application, and sh all be subject to the
provisions of subsection 901.18.

A floodplain development permit may be authorized pursuant to the Type B application procedure set
forth in Section 1301 and subject to compliance wi th the review criteria listed in subsections 901.06
through 901.10.  In addition to the notification requirements of Section 1402, written notice of the
request and action taken will be sent to the Or egon Department of Fish and Wildlife and the
Department of Land Conservation a nd Development.  The following information shall be required to
be provided by the applicant:

A. Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
structures.

B. Elevation, expressed in feet above mean sea level, to which an y structure has been
floodproofed.

C. Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that the proposed floodproofing
methods for any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing criteria in subsection 901.08.

D. Specific data regarding the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a
result of the proposed development.
[Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

901.06 Floodplain Development Permit Criteria.

Prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit, the applicant must demonstrate that:

A. The proposed development conforms with the permit requirements and conditions of this
section and the use provisions, standards and limita tions of the underlying zoning district and
other overlay district. [Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

B. The proposed development, if located within the floodway, satisfies the provisions of
subsection 901.09.

C. The proposed development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one (1) foot at any point.

D. All applicable permits have been obtained fro m federal, state or local governmental agencies,
and all applicable National Flood Insurance Program requirements have been satisfied.

E. The proposed development is consistent with policies j. and k. of the Comprehensive Plan, as
amended by ordinance 471.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-3

For convenience, Policies j. and k. of the Comprehensive Plan, as amended by Ordinance 471
are reprinted here.

j. It is the policy of Yamhill County to protect riparian vegetation from damage that may
result from land use applications for developm ent that is otherwise permitted outright or
conditionally under county zoning regulations.  To  achieve this goal, Yamhill County will review
land use applications for development in riparian ar eas in an effort to mitigate or prevent damage to
riparian vegetation that might result from the deve lopment.  For purposes of this policy, "riparian
areas" refers to areas within 100 feet measured horizontally from the ordinary high water line of
streams identified as "Fish Habitat" in the co mprehensive plan inventory (Natural Resource
Conservation Plan, Yamhill County, Oregon, Ma y 1979 -U.S.D.A. - Soil Conservation Services),
that are not regulated under the Forest Practices Act. (Ord 471)

k. It is county policy that land use manageme nt practices and nonstructural solutions to
problems of erosion and flooding are preferred to  structural solutions.  Water erosion control
structures, including riprap and fill, should be reviewed by the appropriate state permitting authority
to insure that they are necessary, are designe d to incorporate vegetation where possible, and
designed to minimize adverse impacts on water currents, erosion, and accretion patterns.

901.07 Floodplain Overlay District General Standards.

In all areas within the FP Overlay District the following standards shall apply:

A. Manufactured Homes.

1. Manufactured homes shall be anchored in  accordance with subsection 901.07 B.

2. No manufactured home park or mobile hom e subdivision shall be developed in the FP
Overlay District.

B. Anchoring.

1. All new construction and substantial improvements sha ll be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of  the structure.  Except in the case of a
manufactured home, elevation of a structure on fill above the base flood level shall be
considered to satisfy the anchoring requirement.

2. All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors, subject to the
following specifications:

(a) Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each corner of the manufactured home,
with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate points, or with one (1)
additional tie per side for manufactured homes less than fifty (50) feet in
length.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-4
(b) Frame ties shall be provide at each corner of the manufactured home, with
five (5) additional ties per side at in termediate points, or with four (4)
additional ties per side for manufactured home less than fifty (50) feet in
length.

(c) All components of the anchoring syst em shall be capable of withstanding a
force of 4,800 pounds per square inch.

(d) Any structure appurtenant to the manufactured home shall be similarly
anchored.

C. Construction Materials Me thods and Certification.

1. All new construction and substantial im provements to existing structures shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.

2. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be  constructed using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

3. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbi ng, and air-conditioning equipment and other
service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise elevated or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions
of flooding.

4. All new construction and s ubstantial improvements with fully enclosed areas below
the floor and subject to flooding shall be  designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic forces to exterior walls by a llowing entry and exit of floodwaters.  A
minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of floor area subject to the flooding shall be provided.  The bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade, and may be equipped
with screens, louvers, or other devices that  automatically permit entry and exit of
floodwaters.

5. All floodproofed nonresidential construction sh all include certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect that the standards of this subsection subsection
901.08 (A) are satisfied based on their devel opment and/or review of the structural
design, specifications and plans.  Such certif ication shall be provided to the Yamhill
County Planning Director.
[Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851; 10/17/13; Ord 884]

D. Utilities and Services.

1. All new and replacement water supply sy stems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.

2. New and replacement sanitary sewage sy stems shall be designed and located to
minimize or eliminate flood water infiltr ation and contamination resulting from
discharge of effluent consistent with th e requirements of the Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ).

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-5
3. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding consistent with the DEQ.
 [Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

E. Subdivision Proposals.
No new subdivisions shall be allowed in fl oodway areas.  New subdivisions in flood fringe
areas shall be subject to the following:

1. All subdivision proposals shall be consistent  with the requirement to minimize flood
damage.

2. All subdivision proposals shall have public  utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems, located and c onstructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage. [Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

3. All subdivision proposals shall have adequa te drainage provided to reduce exposure to
flood damage.

4. Base flood elevations in feet above mean sea level shall be provided for all
subdivisions and other proposed developments  which contain at least 50 lots or 5
acres, whichever is less, in the FP Overlay District.

F. Fills and Levees.

Except for approved relocation of a water course, no fill or levee shall extend into a floodway
area.  Fills or levees in a flood fringe area shall be subject to the following:

1. Fills shall consist only of  natural materials such as earth or soil aggregate and
including sand, gravel and rock, concrete and metal.

2. Any fill or levee must be shown to have a beneficial purpose and therefore to be no
greater than is necessary to achieve that purpose, as demonstrated by a plan submitted
by the owner showing the uses to which th e filled or diked land will be put and the
final dimensions of the proposed fill.

3. Such fill or levee shall be protected ag ainst erosion by vegetative cover, rip-rap,
bulkheading or similar provisions.  No fill or levee shall cause additional flood waters
on adjacent land.      [Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

901.08 Specified Standards for Areas Where Ba se Flood Elevation Data are Available.

In the FP Overlay District where base flood eleva tion data have been provided, as set forth in
subsection 901.02 or 901.03, the following standards shall apply:

A. For any new residential construction and substa ntial improvement of any residential structure,
the lowest floor level shall be a minimum of one  (1) foot above the base flood elevation.  New
construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other
nonresidential structures and accompanying utility and sanitary facilities shall either have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to th e level of the base flood elevation or together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be subject to the following:
[Amended
10/17/2013; Ord.884]

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-6

1. Be floodproofed so that all portions of the structure below the base flood level are
watertight, with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water.

2. Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
and effects of buoyancy.

B. For the placement of a manufactured home th e bottom of the longitudinal chassis frame beam
shall be one (1) foot above the base flood elevation, and the provisions of section 901.07(C)(4)
shall be satisfied, if applicable.  In addition, the mobile home must be elevated on a permanent
foundation and is subject to the anchoring requirements in subsection 901.07 (B). [Amended
10/17/2013; Ord.884]

C. Nonresidential structures that are elevated, not floodproofed, shall meet the same standards for
space below the lowest floor as described in Section 901.07(C).  [Added 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

 D. Recreational vehicles placed on sites are required to either:

1. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or

2. Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disc onnect type security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
[Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

901.09 Floodway or Watercourse  Development Provisions.

A. The placement of any dwelling in the floodway shall be prohibited.

B. Except those uses provided for in subsecti on 901.04, all development,  including substantial
improvements, in the floodway shall be prohibited unless certification is provided by a
registered professional engineer demonstrati ng through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses
performed in conformance with standard engin eering practice that the proposal will not result
in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
  [Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

C. For any proposed alteration of a waterc ourse a floodplain development permit shall be
required, and approval of the permit shall be subject to the following additional requirements:

1. Adjacent communities, the State Department  of Land Conservation and Development,
and other appropriate state and federal agencies shall be notified by the Director of
any proposed alteration or relocation of  a watercourse, and evidence of such
notification shall be submitted to the Federal Insurance Administration.

2. All appropriate state and fede ral permits shall be obtained.

3. It shall be the applicant's responsibility to  maintain the altered or relocated portion of
said watercourse so that its flood carrying capacity is not diminished.
 [Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

901.10 Review of Permits in Generalized Floodplain Areas.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-7
Where specific flood elevation data are not ava ilable, pursuant to subsections 901.03 and 901.04,
applications for floodplain develo pment permits shall be reviewed to ensure that the proposed
development will be reasonably saf e from flooding or resistant to  flood damage.  In determining
whether the proposed floodplain development is reas onably safe, historical data, high water marks,
photographs of past flooding, etc. shall be utilized, where available.  In addition to the applicable
requirements of this section, the following factors shall be considered when reviewing a floodplain
development permit for any proposal in an area where specific flood elevation data are not available:

A. The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.  [Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

B. The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or downstream to the injury of
others.

C. The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its  contents to flood damage and the effect of
such damage on the individual owner.  [Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

D. The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are not subject to flooding
or erosion damage. The importance of the serv ices provided by the proposed facility to the
community.

E. The necessity to the facility of a waterfront lo cation, where applicable and the compatibility of
the proposed use with existing and anticipated development.  [Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

F. The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and any floodplain
management program of the area.

G. The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles.

H. The expected heights, velocity, duration, ra te of rise, and sediment transport of the flood
waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site.   [Amended 10/17/2013;
Ord.884]

I. The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including
maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems, and streets and bridges.  [Added 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

901.11 Conditions of Approval.

In approving an application for a floodplain development permit, the decision-making body may
impose such conditions as it deems appropriate to ensure  the intent of this section is carried out.  Such
conditions shall be reasonably related to the applicab le criteria and standards set forth in subsections
901.08 through 901.10.

901.12 General Requirements.

Any floodplain development permit authorized pursuan t to this ordinance shall be subject to the
following additional requirements:

A. An authorized floodplain development permit is not personal to the applicant and shall be
deemed to run with the land, provided the su bsequent owner or developer adheres to the
specific proposal originally approved and complies with conditions of approval.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-8
B. A floodplain development permit involving cons truction shall become null and void 180 days
from the date it is granted unless substantial c onstruction has taken place.  The Director may
extend the permit for an additional 180 days if there have been no revisions to the FIRM or
FIS, upon receipt of a written request for ex tension from the applicant demonstrating good
cause for the delay and provided that the request  to extend the permit is received by the
Director prior to the expiration date of the permit.  In the event that a permit expires prior to
renewal, the Director may require a new application fee.
[Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

C. Where base flood elevation data has been provided, as set forth in subsection 901.02 or
901.03, the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including base-
ments, of all new or substantially improved structures must be obtained from the applicant and
the elevation, together with information regard ing whether the structure contains a basement,
must be recorded on the building permit and FEMA’s current Elevation Certificate form.

[Amended 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

D. For all new or substantially improved floodproof ed structures, the Planning Director must
verify and record the actual elevation of the structure (in relation to mean sea level) and
maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection 901.07(C)(5).

E. All records pertaining the provisions of this sec tion are to be maintained for public inspection.

901.13 Appeals.

Appeal of any decision made pursuant to this sec tion shall be as provided in Section 1404 of this
ordinance.

901.14 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.

The degree of flood protection required by this or dinance is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering methods of study.  Larger floods may occur on
rare occasions.  Flood heights may be increased by  manmade or natural causes. This section does not
imply that areas outside of the FP Overlay District or  uses permitted within such district will be free
from flooding or flood damages.  This section shall not crate liability on the part of Yamhill County or
any officer or employee thereof, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this Section or any
decision lawfully made thereunder.

901.15 Map Revisions.

Floodplain/floodway maps may be revised in acco rdance with provisions of the National Flood
Insurance Program outlined in th e Federal Register 44 CRF Part 70, upon approval of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.

901.16 Denial of Flood Insurance Coverage.

In the event that the county finds a violation of fl oodplain ordinance provisions or a violation of other
National Flood Insurance Program requirements, a declaration shall be submitted to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, according to the pr ovisions of 44 CRF Part 70, notifying them of
the violation(s), and resulting in the denial of floodplain insurance eligibility for the property in
violation.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-9
901.17 Rate Criteria and Notice.

In the event that the lowest floor of proposed cons truction is not elevated at least two feet above the
highest adjacent grade in floodplain areas where eleva tion data is not availabl e, higher insurance rates
may result. [Amended 2/24/2010; Ord.851]

Applicants floodproofing non-residential buildings ar e hereby notified that flood insurance premiums
will be based on rates that are one foot below the floodproofed level.

901.18 Floodplain Variance Criteria

A variance to this Section may be authorized, pursuant to the Type B application procedure set forth in Section
1301 and upon consideration of all technical evaluations, a ll relevant factors, applicable standards specified in
other sections of this ordinance, and the factors specifically listed in subsection 901.10.

901.19 Conditions for Variances

A. Generally, the only condition under which a variance fro m the elevation standard may be issued is for
new construction and substantial improvements to be  erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existi ng structures constructed below the base flood level,
providing the factors listed in sub section 901.10 have been fully c onsidered. As the lot sizes increase,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.

B. Variances may be issued for reconstruction, rehab ilitation, or restoration of structures listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or the Statewid e Inventory of Historic Properties, without regard
to the procedures set forth in this section.

C. Variances shall not be issued within a designate d floodway if any increase in flood levels during the
base flood discharge would result.

D. Variances shall only be issued upon a determinati on that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

E. Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient cause, a determination that
failure to grant the variance would result in excepti onal hardship to the applicant, and a determination
that the granting of a variance will not result in in creased flood heights, additional threats to public
safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.

F. Variances as interpreted by the National Flood Insurance Program are based on the general zoning law
principle that they pertain to a physical piece of pr operty, they are not personal in nature and do not
pertain to the structure, its inhabitants, economic or financial circumstances. They primarily address
small lots in densely populated residential neighborhoods. As such, variances from the flood
elevations should be quite rare.

G. Variances may be issued for nonreside ntial structures in very limited  circumstances to allow a lesser
degree of floodproofing than watertight or dry-fl oodproofing, where it can be determined that such
action will have low damage potential, complies with  all other variance criteria except  901.19 (A),
and otherwise complies with subsection 901.07(B), (C) and (D).

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 901-10
H. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will be
permitted to be built with a lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the incr eased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
 [901.19 Added 10/17/2013; Ord.884]

F:\Share\ZO\0901_884.doc