Zoning Ordinance
Section 1206.00 - Similar Uses

1206.01  Purpose and Scope
The purpose of this section is to provide for those uses not specifically listed in a
particular zoning district but which are similar in character, scale and performance to the
permitted uses specified therein. Those zoning districts in which a similar use may be
authorized are:
A.
 Parks, Recreation and Open
Space
PRO
B.  Recreation Commercial RC
C.  Neighborhood Commercial NC
D.  Highway/Tourist Commercial HC
E.  Resource Industrial RI
F.  Light/General Industrial LI
G.  Heavy Industrial HI
H.  Public Assembly Institutional PAI
1206.02  Review Criteria
A similar use may be authorized pursuant to subsection 1206.01  above and subject to the
Type A  application procedure set forth in Section 1301  and provided that the applicant
demonstrates that the proposed use satisfies the following criteria:
A.  The use is consistent with the purpose and scope set forth in subsection 1206.01
and with the purpose of the underlying zoning district; and

B.  The use conforms with the applicable standards and limitations of the underlying
zoning district.
1206.03  General Requirements
Any similar use authorized pursuant to this ordinance shall be subject to the following
additional requirements:
A.  An authorized similar use is not personal to the applicant and shall be deemed to
run with the land.
B.  Where the granting of a similar use is contingent upon an amendment to this
ordinance and an application for such amendment has been recommended for
approval by the Commission, the Commission may authorize the granting of a
similar use contingent upon the necessary final action of the Board in respect to
the required ordinance amendment, and further action by the Commission shall
not be necessary.

1206.04  Record of Determination
Unlisted uses which the decision-making body has determined to be similar to the
permitted uses in the underlying zoning district shall no longer require a similar use
permit and shall be considered as permitted uses in the applicable zoning district.

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page