2 JAN 11 ASS
            JIN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                  OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                 FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                 SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

 In the matter-of an ordinance Amending the
 Yamhill County Zone Map to Change, on a
 19.24 acre tract comprised of Tax Lot 3314-
 1104, the Zone Map Designation from from                             ORDINANCE 706
 AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to
 EF-40 Exclusive Farm Use; Planning Docket
 PAZ-05-01; Applicants Allison and Clifford
 Anderson; Declaring an Emergency

THE BOARD       OF COMMISSIONERS            OF YAMHILL       COUNTY,      OREGON     (“the Board”), sat
for the transaction of county business in formal session on January 10, 2002, Commissioners
Thomas E. E. Bunn Robert Johnstone and Leslie Lewis being present.

THE BOARD MAKES THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:

A.      Allison and Clifford Anderson ("the applicants") applied to the Department of Planning and
Development for a zone map amendment from AF-10 to EF-40 on a 19.24 acre tract comprised of Tax
Lot 3314-1104.

B.       The subject property has a "Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding" comprehensive plan map
designation. The existing plan map designation is sufficient to allow a zone map designation of EF-40
without a comprehensive plan map amendment to "Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding.”

[on       On November 1, 2001 the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public hearing on the
 application and unanimously voted to approve the zone change request.

D.      Section 1300 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance, No. 310 as amended, provides that a
decision of the Planning Commission to approve a zone change is final unless appealed to the Board or
ordered to be reviewed by the Board within 15 days of notice of the decision. Since no appeal was filed and
the Board did not order review, the Planning Commission's November 1, 2001decision to approve the
application is final subject to enactment of an implementing ordinance by the Board.

                                                                                     aan
                                                                                       ORDINANCE 706
                                                                                                    Page 1

                                                                               4.0. Ol-AY
The Board Finds the decision of the Planning Commission is appropriate for the reasons contained
in the findings for approval attached as Exhibit      A; NOW THEREFORE,

THE YAMHILL          COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                       ORDAINS as follows:

         Section 1. The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended as specified in the
attached Exhibit "B", to reflect a zoning designation of EF-40 on the 19.24 acre tract comprised of Tax Lot
3314-1104.

         Section 2. The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by this reference are
adopted in support of this ordinance.

        Section 3. This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

         DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 10th day of January 2002.

ATTEST                                         YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                   Thewwr               €.é. Bunw—
                                                Chairman                THOMAS E. E. BUNN

                                                    [BeteDC LESLIE
                                                Commissioner
                                                       “
                                                             basee)LEWIS
FORM APPROVED BY:

RICK SANAI                                      Commissioner               OBERT JOHNSTONE
Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                    ” ORDINANCE 706
                                                                                                    Page 2
                                              EXHIBIT “A”
                                            ORDINANCE 706
                                         (Findings for Approval)

DATE OF PLANNING
COMMISSION HEARING:                  November 1, 2001

DATE OF ORDINANCE
ADOPTION:                            January 10, 2002

DOCKET:                              PAZ-5-01

REQUEST:                             A zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to EF-
                                     40 Exclusive Farm Use.

APPLICANT:                           Allison and Clifford Anderson_

TAX LOT:                             3314-1104

LOCATION:                           20120 Herring Lane, Newberg, Oregon

APPROVAL     CRITERIA:               Sections 403, 501, 1101.02 and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                                     Ordinance.   Section 904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied.
                                     Comprehensive Plan policies may be applicable.

FINDINGS:

A. Background Facts

1.    Lot Size: 19.24 acres. The property is made up of four lots of the Chehalem Richlands Subdivision.

2.    Access: Herring Lane, a publicly dedicated and privately maintained road.

3.    On-Site Land Use:   The majority of the property is planted to vineyard.   The applicant states 16 acres
      is planted and is in its fifth commercial harvest. The property contains an agricultural barn with an
      unfinished apartment. Earlier this year the applicant completed installation of a septic system that
      can serve up to a four bedroom house.

4.    Surrounding Land Use: Land in the surrounding area contains rural residential and small farm uses
      which includes vineyards, orchards, and livestock.

                                                                                   ran

                                                                   EXHIBIT “A” TO ORDINANCE 706       - Page 1
       Surrounding Zoning: Adjacent land to the north, south and west is currently zoned AF-10
       Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding.      Land to the east is zoned EF-40 Exclusive Farm Use.

       Soils: Sheet 15 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey indicates approximately 65% of the property is
       Jory (IrD), 30% is Nekia (NcD) and 5% is Jory (JrE). These soils have an agricultural rating of class
       I.

       Taxes: 16.74 acres of the property is currently receiving farm deferral. The remaining 2.5 acres is at
       market value.

       Water:   Existing well.

       Sewage Disposal:     Existing septic system. The installation of a septic system for a 1-4 bedroom
      house would be considered “substantial construction” towards the eventual construction of a single
      family residence.

10.    Previous Actions: None.

11.    Discussion: The applicant wishes to construct a winery. This activity is not listed as a permitted use
       in AF-10 zoning district. A winery of less than 50,000 gallons is allowed in EF-40 zoning district
       subject to having an on-site or adjacent vineyard of 15 acres and an approved Site Design Review.

B. Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

i.     The request must comply with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance
       (YCZO) Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

       (4)      That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other applicable
                provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       (B)      That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the requested
                zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the
                existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other
                lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

       {C)      That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the density
                and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity
                to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services likely to be
                needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

       (D)      That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are either unavailable
                or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other factors.
                                                                                        arn

                                                                       EXHIBIT “A” TO ORDINANCE 706       - Page 2
(E)     That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
        exceptions, if applicable.

These criteria are addressed, respectively, in Findings B.2 through B.6 below.

The zone change and amendment to the comprehensive plan require that the request complies with
the goals and policies of the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan. The 1976 Comprehensive Plan
Map indicated the land is plan designated AFSH Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding.      This was
reaffirmed by the 1980 Exception Process as part of Code Area 1.6. The applicant initially requested
a plan amendment with a zone change but withdrew the plan amendment request at the Planning
Commission hearing. The plan amendment portion of this request is not necessary in order to
preform the zone change. There are several properties which are plan designated AFSH but are zoned
for exclusive farm use. (Additionally, Docket Z-04-94, a previous request for rezoning AF-10 to the
exclusive farm use zone did not include a plan amendment.) The smallest minimum lot size this plan
designation allows is ten acres. However, the property is already divided into four lots of
approximately five acres each. The present zoning on the subject property is AF-10. The AF-10
zone allows placement of a single family dwelling on each of these four lots subject to septic and
building permits. The proposed zoning designation of EF-40 allows the smallest minimum lot size
of 40 acres and does not automatically allow construction of a single family residence without land
use approval.

Regarding Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, the land is currently planned and zoned for small
farm use. Policy ILA.1.a states:

        Yamhill County will provide for preservation of farm lands through appropriate zoning,
        recognizing comparative economic returns to agriculture and alternative uses, changing
       ownership patterns and management practices, changing market conditions for agricultural
       produce, and various financial incentives.

In addition, Policy II.A.2.a states:

        Yamhill County will continue to preserve areas for farm use which exhibit Class I through IV
        soils as identified in the Capability Classification System of the U.S. Soil Conservation
        Service.                       .

The site is predominantly Class III soils and is primarily committed to the production of wine grapes.

The Comprehensive Plan commits the county to protect farm resources, so present use of the parcel
should be the determining factor for an approval of this application. The site has a significant
quantity of grapes which by the applicant’s account have been harvested five times. (Finding A.3).

Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.H.1.g. states:
                                                                             o&

                                                             EXHIBIT “A” TO ORDINANCE 706      - Page 3
Agricultural, forestry and mineral resource-oriented industry will be accommodated in areas close to
the resources utilized, provided that such industrial uses are compatible with any nearby urban
development, city water supply and sewerage are not required, and waste discharges constitute no
threat to the environment.

Even though the winery is within a few miles of the cities of Dundee and Newberg, there is no urban
scale of development in the vicinity of the subject parcel at this time, and no city water or sewer is
available to, or required by the winery. DEQ handles permits for waste water discharge from
wineries, so presumably they will require a system that will not cause a threat to the environment.

Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.H.1.n. states:

The county will recognize and encourage small scale industries as viable alternatives to larger,
conventional enterprises.

The winery, as proposed, is very small scale.

Regarding criterion 1208.02 (B), the need relevant to this request is related to the planted vineyard
and the applicants desire to establish a winery. The present zoning does not allow wineries as a
permitted use in the AF-10 zone. A winery of up to 50,000 gallons is a permitted use in the EF-40
zone subject to approval of a site design review. This is true of other lands zoned EF-40, 20 or 80
and lands zoned AF-20, 40 or 80. Criterion (B) requires the consideration of other land zoned for the
requested use and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone. While much of the county has
lands in resource zoning which allows a winery, not all of this land is suitable for growing wine
grapes. To be productive, vineyard land must have suitable soils, be at the correct elevation and have
the correct topography.      Obviously, not all land in the county has the right combination of factors to
grow wine grapes. Additionally, the applicant’s established vineyard is not something that can be
easily picked up and moved. If other appropriately zoned and suitable land is available in the
surrounding area, and the applicant wished to relocate to such property, a small winery could only be
established by a conditional use approval or by planting an additional 15 acres of vineyard.

Regarding criterion 1208.02 (C), as noted in Finding A.4, the surrounding property consists of small
scale farm uses. Approval of this zone change would allow establishment of a winery which is
similar to farm uses in the surrounding area. Additionally, the request would limit the creation of
new parcels and the ability to develop dwellings. As stated above, the property is made up of four
lots, each of which could have a single family dwelling established without additional land use
approval. If the rezoning is approved, the number of permitted dwellings would be reduced to one.
The applicants are aware of this and welcome such a restriction. Lessening the ability for
development in the area would help to prevent conflicts with neighboring farmers. Regarding the
need for utilities and services, the property already has a well and septic system for a single family
residence. A winery would need adequate septic, water, access and on-site parking. The wastewater
treatment approval for the crush is through DEQ. Water is provided by an on-site well. Access is by
Herring Lane. On-site parking would be placed in the unplanted 2.5 acres of property. Based on the

                                                                EXHIBIT “A” TO ORDINANCE 706       - Page 4
                applicant’s preliminary map, there appears to be adequate room for the facilities needed to establish
                the use.

5.              Regarding criterion 1208.02 (D), the farm use is already established on the subject tract, see Finding
                B.3, above.

6.              Regarding criterion 1208.02 (E), no exception is required.

Cc.             Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis

1.              The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must be addressed. OAR
                660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

                (2)    Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
                       regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that allowed land
                       uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of service of the facility.

2.              As noted above, approval of the request would restrict the use of the property to only allow one single
                family dwelling (based on substantial construction) instead of four dwellings that could presently be
                approved without any special land use approval. In spite of the fact that approval of the request
                would likely result in a winery, the reduction in allowable residential use shows that the request is
                consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of service of the local roads, and would not
                significantly affect the transportation facility.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.              The request is for a zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to EF-40 Exclusive
                Farm Use.

2.              The request complies with the Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies.

3.              The requested use is appropriate for the area considering the level of services needed and available,
                and considering surrounding development.

4.              The request complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

DECISION:

The zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to EF-40 Exclusive Farm Use on a tract of
land identified as Tax Lot 3314-1104 is approved as provided in the implementing ordinance.

FAZ\Z-4-94,5r

                                                                              EXHIBIT “A” TO ORDINANCE 706       - Page 5
               EXHIBIT “B” MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 706
                             ZONE CHANGE
     ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS   .
                            JANUARY 3, 2002
               TO CHANGE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FROM
            AF-10 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY SMALL HOLDING
                                  TO
                      EF-40 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE

                     O4

                       WILLIAMSON         RD.

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOT 3314-1104 DESCRIBED ABOVE

APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 200 FEET