BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

               SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment and

                                                                    ee”
a Zoning Map Amendment to exchange nearly equal amounts
of land zoned EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use and RI Resource                            Ordinance 894

                                                                    Ne
Industrial in order to accommodate an existing composting

                                                                    Ne
facility on a 17-Acre portion of Tax Lot 5309-2100

                                                                    Ne
(Applicant Water Truck Services) Planning Docket PAZ-02-15,

                                                                    Neel Ne
and Declaring an Emergency

         THE   BOARD      OF    COMMISSIONERS        OF YAMHILL               COUNTY,   OREGON      (the
Board) sat for the transaction of county business on October 22, 2015, Commissioners Mary
Starrett and Stan Primozich being present and Commissioner Allen Springer being excused.

         IT APPEARING          TO THE BOARD     that Water Truck Services has requested a plan
amendment and zone change for an approximately 17-acre portion of Tax Lot 5309-2100 (14425
SE Wallace Road, Dayton); and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that this matter came before the Planning
Commision for public hearing on September 3, 2015 and that the Planning Commission voted 8-
0 to recommend approval of the application by the Board of Commissioners; and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that this matter came before the Board on October
15, 2015 for public hearing and that, following the hearing and deliberation, the Board voted 3-0
to approve the application and to continue the matter to this date for adoption of a final written
decision and findings in support of approval; NOW, THEREFORE

         THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

         Section |,   The findings and condition attached as Exhibit “A” and incorporated
herein by reference are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

        Section 2.    The Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Maps of Yamhill County are hereby
amended as specified in the attached Exhibit “B,” incorporated herein by this reference, to reflect
a plan and zoning designation of +9.03 acres of EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use, and +7.97 acres of
RI, Resource Industrial, for the approximately 17-acre portion of Tax Lot 5309-2100 identified
on the attached Exhibit “B” map.   Plan and zone designations of the remainder of Tax Lot 5309-
2100 remain unchanged.

it

                                                                                         BO.      15-432.
          Section 3.    This Ordinance being necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill    County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
immediately.

          DONE     this 22"! day of October, 2015, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

BRIAN VAN BERGEN                                        [EXCUSED]
County Clerk                           Chair                ALLEN SPRINGER

FORM APPROVED BY:

|Ads
Tibethy S. Sadlo
Sedjor Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                ORDINANCE 894
                                                                         (BOARD ORDER |5~4347)
                                                                                        Page 2
                                       Exhibit A ~ Ordinance 894

                              FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL

DOCKET NO.:              PAZ-02-15

SUMMARY          OF APPROVAL:             Approval of a comprehensive plan amendment and zone
                  change to exchange nearly equal amounts of land zoned EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use
                  and land zoned RI Resource Industrial. This approval involves 9.03 acres of RI
                  zoned land being planned Agriculture and rezoned to EF-80, and 7.97 acres of EF-
                  80 land being planned Industrial and rezoned to RI. The exchange results in an
                  additional 1.06 acres of Agricultural-Planned and EF-80 zoned property.

APPLICANT/OWNER:                   Water Truck Services, Inc, represented by Wendie     Kellington,
                                   Kellington Law Group

TAX LOT:          5309-2100

LOCATION:         14425 SE Wallace Road, Dayton

ZONE:            EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use and RI Resource Industrial

CRITERIA:        Sections 303, 402, 701, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.
                 Comprehensive. Plan policies may be applicable. OAR 660-04 (Exception process
                 for Goal 3); OAR 660-012-0060 (Transportation Planning Rule).

FINDINGS:

A.      Background Facts

1.   Property Size: 96.24 acres.

2. Access: Wallace Road (State Highway 221).

3.   On-site Land Use:     The property contains three large storage buildings along with several
     smaller accessory structures. The property also contains a foundation of a large building that
     was the location of a former berry packing plant. The majority of the 96 acres is in farm use.
     The eastern 60+ acres drops down to the floodplain of Lambert Slough and contains riparian
     vegetation and an open field. Approximately 35 acres of the upper field is planned and zoned
     RI, Resource Industrial.   The remainder of the land is planned and zoned EF-80, Exclusive
     Farm Use.

4,   Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: Property to the north is owned by Carlton Nursery and is
     zoned a mixture of RI, Resource Industrial and EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use. Property to the
     south is zoned EF-80. Property to the east, across the river, is in Marion County and appears
   to be entirely in farm use. A 2.5 acre property to the west is owned by Wilco Farmers and is
   zoned RJ, Resource Industrial. The remainder of the property bordering to the west is zoned
   EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use.

   Water: Provided by an on-site well.

   Sewage Disposal:    Provided by an on-site septic system.

   Fire Protection:   Dayton Rural Fire Department.

   Previous Actions: In 1973, Carlton Nursery Co. received approval! for a partition that created
   the subject parcel (Docket P-291-73). In 1979, the County adopted Ordinance 202, which
   zoned a portion of the property RI, Resource Industrial and concluded that this portion of the
   property was committed to non-farm/non-forestry uses.        In 1991, Norpac Foods received
   approval for the placement of an oil storage tank (Docket SDR-02-91). On December 29,
    1993, Yamhill County adopted new zoning maps through Ordinance 565. In 2012 a similar
   use and site design review application was approved to allow on-site composting of what DEQ
   classifies as “Type | and 2” feedstocks. On October 30, 2014, as modified on November 4,
   2014 in SDR-05-14, Yamhill County approved a modification to that approval of the on-site
   composting operation.      On November 12, 2014, Carlton Farms appealed that approval.
   Thereafter the parties worked cooperatively to resolve that appeal to change the location of the
   approved composting activities. This approval resolves that appeal by adjusting the RI-zoned
   areas where composting may occur, and by establishing an area planned and zoned RI where
   a restrictive covenant will prohibit composting. The approved compost operation is subject to
   the same conditions of approval as applied in SDR-05-14, other than those pertaining to
   compost activity location. Compost activity is allowed as provided in SDR-05-14 with the
   location adjusted as provided in this approval decision.

   Groundwater Limited Area: The property is located in a Groundwater Limited Area, identified
   by the Oregon Water Resources Department.

10. Overlay Districts:   FIRM 410710445D shows the eastern portion (approximately 60 acres) of
    the property as being within the 100-year floodplain.

il. Fish and Wildlife: The property is not located in identified fish or wildlife habitat.     The
    property is not located in the big game winter range.

12. Soils: The Yamhill County soil survey shows approximately half of the property has Cloquato
    silt loam and 4 is Woodburn silt loam. The property also contains small enclaves of Amity
    and Newberg silt loam. All are rated as agricultural Class II soils.

Page 2—   ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
B.      Zone Change Provisions and Analysis

L.   A quasi-judicial change to a zoning map may be authorized, pursuant to Subsection 1208.01,
     provided that the request satisfies all applicable requirements of this ordinance, and also
     provided that the applicant demonstrates compliance with the following criteria, except as
     provided in Subsection 1208.02:

          A,   The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies and any other applicable
               provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

                There is an existing, demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
                economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
                the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
                uses allowed by the zone.

                The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
                density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
                utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                district.

                Other lands in the County already designated for the proposed uses are either
                unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size or
                other factors.

          E.    The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR's)
               for exceptions, if applicable.

        Regarding criterion 1208.02(A): The majority of the Yamhill County Goals and Policies
        are aspirational and are not approval criteria. Due consideration is given to arguably
        applicable goals and policies in the following sections of these findings. Some of the
        county’s goals and policies conflict with one another and not all of them apply to this
        decision. The applicable county goals and policies are to be used as a guide to aid decision
        makers, including the county in making this decision. Where applicable goals or policies
        conflict, the decision makers are required to weigh the evidence and resolve conflicts
        between potentially applicable goals. The proposal is consistent with the county goals and
        policies as discussed below:

Page 3 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
              e   Section]. URBAN GROWTH           AND CHANGE AND ECONOMIC
                  DEVELOPMENT

       Section IB Rural Area Development

       Goal Statement 1. To provide an adequate amount of land, development areas
       and sites to accommedate those uses which are customarily found in rural
       areas or require or are better suited to rural locations, without compromising
       the basic goa] relating to urban containment and orderly urban development.
       (66)
       Policies

       C. All proposed rural area development and facilities:

                  1.     Shall be appropriately, if not uniquely, suited to the area or site
                         proposed for development;
                  2.     Shall not be located in any natural hazard area, such as a
                         floodplain or area of geologic hazard, steep slope, severe
                         drainage problems or soil limitations for building or sub-surface
                         sewage disposal, if relevant;
                         Shall be furnished with adequate access and an adequate
                         individual or community water supply, if required; and shall not
                         be justified solely or even primarily on the argument that the
                         land is less costly than alternative better sites or that federal or
                         state aid is available in the form of subsidized water supply or
                         sewerage extensions from nearby urban centers. (67)

       D.          No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially
                   influence the extension of costly services and facilities normally
                   associated with urban centers, such as municipal water supply and
                   sanitary sewerage or power, gas and telephone services, nor shall it
                   impose inordinate additional net costs on mobile, centralized public
                   services, such as police and fire protection, school busing or refuse
                   collection. (68)

FINDINGS:

Section I.B addresses rural area development and includes a relevant goal statement and two
policies. The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Goal Statement 1 because
it continues to provide for an adequate amount of land dedicated for rural uses. The proposed
designation changes will not alter the overall commitment of the affected areas to rural uses and,
given that the subject property is not located adjacent to or near an urban area, it does not impede
the basic goal of expanding urban development in a concentrated and orderly manner.

Page 4—     ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy C because it maintains the
existing, appropriately suited levels of development and public facilities. No new public facilities
are needed to implement development under the proposed configuration that would otherwise not
be needed to implement development under the current configuration. The area of the property
where the plan and zone designation exchange will take place is not located in any natural hazard
area. And, given that the uses that will take place under the reconfigured parcel already have
adequate transportation access and water, and because no additional transportation or water needs
will result under the proposed changes, these services and facilities will continue to be adequate.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy D because the proposal will
not require or otherwise substantially influence the extension of costly services and facilities
normally associated with urban uses. The proposal retains the property as rural land and allows
only rural levels of uses. Additionally, as noted above, adequate rural levels of public facilities
and services already exist for uses on the subject property and the nature, type and scale of uses
that will occur after the proposal designation switch will remain the same as the current designation
configuration.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with relevant provisions of the Yamhill
County Land Use Comprehensive Plan Section I.B Rural Area Development.

              e     Section LF Economic Development

          Goal Statement 1.      To maintain a rate and pattern of economic           growth
          sufficient to prevent recurring high levels of unemployment and under-
          employment in the county, balance the real property tax base of the various
          cities, and strengthen local economic bases. (92) R

          Policy:

          B. Yamhill County will encourage economic development projects which do
          not conflict with the predominant timber and agricultural character of the
          county.

FINDINGS:

Comprehensive Plan Section LF is focused on promoting economic development in Yamhill
County.     The county finds that the proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Goal
Statement 1 because the proposed reconfiguration maintains the existing level of economic uses
at the subject property by retaining nearly the same amount of RI zoning on the subject property.
The slight 1.06-acre reduction in RI-zoned land will not adversely affect economic development
on the property because the lost land was located on a portion of the property that was not
particularly developable for RI uses and, following adoption of this ordinance, the RI area will
contain more usable land in a better location than it previously held. Overall, this reconfiguration

Page 5 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
will make the property more useful, contribute to the established real property tax base, and help
to maintain the economic base of the local area.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy B because approval of the plan
and zoning designation exchange will provide for a slight increase in agricultural uses on the
property and will maintain a resource industrial use that promotes the agricultural character of this
area of the county.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with relevant provisions of the Yamhill
County Land Use Comprehensive Plan Section I.F Economic Development.

             e     Section I.H Industrial Development

       Goal Statement 1. To concentrate industries of similar types, service needs,
       and performance characteristics within designated areas of each of the existing
       urban centers; to encourage adequate land for new industrial development
       within urban grewth boundaries; to encourage the relocation of existing
       industries from undesirable locations in order to eliminate land use conflicts;
       to attract new industries in accordance with the need to achieve a more
       balanced local property tax and employment base, while maintaining a high
       standard of environmental quality; and to protect the stability and functional
       aspect of industrial areas by protecting them from incompatible uses.

       Policies:

       E. Industrial uses will be located so that adequate buffer space is provided
       between incompatible land uses.

        G.       Agricultural, forestry and mineral resource-oriented industry will be
       accommodated in areas close to the resources utilized, provided that such
       industrial uses are compatible with any nearby urban development, city water
       supply and sewerage are not required, and waste discharges constitute no
        threat to the environment.

       H. Established industrial areas may be extended and new industrial areas
       designated by plan amendment where development trends warrant such
       extension or designation and full urban services are extended into the area, if
       appropriate, and the extension or designation of land use and services is
       consistent with all other goals and policies of the comprehensive plan. (139)

FINDINGS:

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Section LH, Goal Statement 1 because
the proposed designation reconfiguration helps to protect the stability and functional aspects of a
resource industrial area by facilitating relocation of a portion of the operation in order to eliminate

Page 6 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
land use conflicts with activities taking place to the north of the compost facility. Approval of this
proposal will promote both agricultural activity and industrial development of the county.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy E because approval of the
proposal will relocate an area currently designated RI on the northwest portion of the property
southward and away from adjacent uses to the north that may find compost use of the existing area
conflicting with their current uses. The proposal helps provide adequate buffer space to the uses
to the north while continuing to maintain an adequate buffer for the land uses to the south.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy G because it allows for the
continuation and future expansion of an agricultural resource-oriented industry that is surrounded
by the resources utilized for that industry. There is no nearby urban development that the proposal
need be compatible with and, as noted above, city water and sewerage services are not required.
Because the use simply maintains an existing use with only a reconfigured footprint and the
composting operations will continue to operate under Department of Environmental Quality
permits, waste discharges will likely continue to comply with applicable law and not constitute a
threat to the environment.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy H because, although the
proposal results in no net increase in resource industrial designated lands, it relocates resource
industrial uses to new areas of the subject property and the extension is consistent with all other
goals and policies of the comprehensive plan.     Additional facilities and services are not needed
and no urban services will be extended onto the subject property.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with relevant provisions of the Yamhill
County Land Use Comprehensive Plan Section IH Industrial Development.

            e      Section Il. THE LAND AND WATER

       A.       Agricultural Lands

       GOAL STATEMENT 1. | To conserve Yamhill County's farm lands for the
       production of crops and livestock and to ensure that the conversion of farm
       land te urban use where necessary and appropriate occurs in an orderly and
       economical manner. (104) R

       POLICIES:

       A. Yamhill County will provide for the preservation of farm lands through
       appropriate zoning, recognizing comparative economic returns to agriculture
       and alternative uses, changing ownership patterns and management practices,
       changing market conditions for agricultural produce, and various public
       financial incentives. (105)

Page 7 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
       H. No proposed rural] area development shall substantially impair or conflict
       with the use of farm or forest land, or be justified solely or even primarily on
       the argument that the land is unsuitable for farming or forestry or, due to
       ownership, is not currently part of an economic farming or forestry enterprise.

FINDINGS:

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with comprehensive plan Section ILA,
Goal Statement 1, because the proposal conserves and even slightly increases the amount of
Yamhill County farmland for continued productions of crops. The proposal does not provide for
or allow the conversion of farmland for urban use.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy A because it continues to
provide for the preservation of farmland through appropriate zoning. While the proposal seeks to
reconfigure the location of RI areas and EF areas on a split-zoned parcel, it not only preserves, but
actually increases the amount of land that can be used for agricultural purposes. Both of the areas
that will be designated for farm use are on the edges of areas currently being farmed.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy H because it does not introduce
any new activities that could substantially impair or conflict with farm use of the subject property.
The long-present resource industrial use that occurs on the premises does not impair farming
activity, it complements farming activity. Indeed, as noted above, it supports not only immediately
surrounding farming activity, but the activity of wineries and other agricultural operations in the
greater area that need a place to compost organic wastes.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with relevant provisions of the Yamhill
County Land Use Comprehensive Plan Section [1.A, Goal Statement 1 and related policies.

            e   GOAL STATEMENT 2. To conserve Yamhill County's soil resources
                in a manner reflecting their suitability for forestry, agriculture and
                urban development and their sustained use for the purposes designated
                on the county plan map.

       POLICIES:

       A. Yamhill County will continue to preserve those areas for farm use which
       exhibit Class I through IV soils as identified in the Capability Classification
       System of the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.

FINDINGS:

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Goal Statement 2 because it conserves
high value soils for agriculture and agriculture-related uses consistent with designations on the
county plan map for those soils types. While the proposal represents a reconfiguration of uses on
the subject property, the soils types in the areas proposed for reconfiguration are predominantly

Page 8 — ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
classified as type II soils. Consequently, the areas identified for active farming are capable of
continuing to support agricultural use.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with Policy A because it continues to
preserve class II soils for agricultural and agricultural resource-industrial related activities.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with relevant provisions of the Yamhill
County Land Use Comprehensive Plan Section ILA, Goal Statement 2 and related policies.

            e     SECTION VIL         IMPLEMENTATION, EVALUATION AND
                  REVIEW

       A.       Citizen Involvement

       POLICY:

       A. Yamhill County will continue to implement an ongoing citizen
       involvement program that provides county residents opportunity to be
       involved in all phases of the planning process.

       B.       Review and Update

       POLICY:

       A. Yamhill County will review any development concepts or proposals which
       conflict with the Plan Map, goals or policies in light of changing needs and
       conditions and in keeping with established procedures of Plan evaluation,
       amendment, and update.

FINDINGS:

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with the relevant citizen involvement
policies embodied in Section VILA.      The county is reviewing this proposal under State-
acknowledged procedures that promote and facilitate public participation in the land use decision
making process.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with the relevant review and update
policies embodied in Section VILA. The county is reviewing the proposal, which changes the plan
map and zoning district map, under established procedures for such amendments.

The proposal is consistent with and otherwise complies with the relevant provisions of the Yamhill
County Land Use Comprehensive Pian Section VII. The applicant has therefor demonstrated
compliance with YCZO 1208.02(A).

Page   9- ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
3.       Regarding criteria 1208.02(B) and (D) generally: as noted in finding A.8, the existing
composting facility was approved on the property in 2012, and that approval was modified in
October and November of 2014. While the applicant or some other person or entity may be able
to establish composting operations in other areas of the county, this property is better suited than
other lands     so zoned   because   it has   an existing,   established,   composting   facility.   The
reconfiguration of the RI Resource Industrial zone will allow for the efficient, continued use of the
existing composting facility while rezoning an acre of property back to farm use. The Exhibit 12
map in the record of this proceeding shows the zoning for the greater area around the subject
property. This map identifies various possible alternative areas for the proposed use and includes
specific sites and generalized areas. The subject property is identified in red with a green star.
Possible alternative sites are indicated by purple stars, This exhibit was relied upon by the county
in its analysis for 1208.02 as well as for the analysis required by both OAR 660-023-0020(2)(b)
and (c).

4.      Regarding YCZO      1208.02(B), the county finds as follows:

There is a demonstrable need for the EF-80 and RI zoned uses for the citizenry and economy of
the area. The comprehensive plan recognizes that commercial farm uses are a significant
component of the county’s economy. Resource-related industrial uses support robust agricultural
activity. The county recognized the importance of, and need for, rural industrial uses in the area
when it adopted an exception to the resource goals for the operation of a cannery on the subject
parcel, That decision was subsequently granted acknowledgment by LCDC. The nature of the RI
uses in this area have evolved over time to meet market need and demand. Today that demand
warrants the composting activity that now takes place on the property and for its efficient
continuation.    The compost activity directly supports the agricultural sector, in particular the
growth of wine-related agricultural activity.

The subject property contains a compost facility that is important to the farm economy in the area.
Given the scarcity of RI planned and zoned properties in the area, the general unavailability of
sites that are appropriately zoned, and the fact that this proposal simply reconfigures the plan and
zone designation boundaries on a property where a compost facility has already been established,
there is no property better suited for the uses that will be developed on the property. The proposal
complies with YCZO 1208.02(B).

5,      Regarding 1208.02(D), the county finds as follows:

There are several possible types of alternative sites that are indicated on Exhibit 12, which is
located in the record and supports these findings. Of greatest relevance are RI zoned properties in
the vicinity of the subject property — one located directly across SE Wallace Road (Hwy 221), and
another property directly to the north on SE Palmer Creek Road. The Board finds that RI-zoned
property to the immediate north is not properly considered because it is developed with RI uses.
Other exception areas for consideration include Mineral Resource (MR) zoned properties, both
along the Willamette River and to the west, and Very Low Density Residential (VLRD) zoned
properties. Also, identified for consideration is the City of McMinnville.

Page 10- ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
The proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated on nonresource land that would not require
an exception. As is plainly evident from Exhibit 12, the subject property is surrounded by resource
land that is composed of high value soils, or land that has received an exception to the resource
goals, or urban areas. Existing exception areas are developed and the reasons for the exception do
not permit the proposed compost use. Urban areas and compost facilities don’t mix due to
objections from urban dwellers related to odor. This has been apparent in the news accounts
identified in the record of this matter concerning the City of North Plains and the nearby Recology
compost facility located in Washington County.     Given the area’s location within the Willamette
Valley, there is no reasonably viable nonresource land to consider under this factor.

The proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated on land that is already irrevocably
committed to nonresource uses not allowed by Goal 3, whether in existing unincorporated
communities or by increasing the density of uses on committed lands. The nature of the proposed
rural industrial use, composting, is one that occupies the surface of the land and is not the type of
use that can be facilitated by increasing the density or intensity of the use. The most ideal
committed lands that could possibly accommodate the proposed use are the existing RI lands either
directly across Hwy 221 or located to the north. As explained below, those lands are not
reasonably available to accommodate the compost use.

The adjacent property cannot reasonably accommodate the proposed use because the size of the
RI zoned parcel (2.52 acres) is smaller than the acreage needed and involved in the map
amendment (7.97 acres). Additionally, composting operations would need to be established at the
site, which would incur start-up costs, making it prohibitively expensive. Even if that site were to
be combined with the existing operations on the subject property, the 2.52-acre parcel would not
be sufficient to accommodate the expansion needs and would require frequent compost vehicle
crossings of an intersection in order to turn cooking compost or to facilitate sales. This would pose
an increased risk to vehicles traveling on both SE Wallace Road and SE Alderman Road. For
these reasons, the adjacent property cannot reasonably accommodate the proposed use.

The RI zoned property to the north on SE Palmer Creek Road is of sufficient size to accommodate
the compost uses. However, that property is fully developed with existing uses. Consequently,
conversion of that property to support the compost use would entail ending an existing business,
removal of existing structures and equipment, and the establishment of new infrastructure needed
for composting operations. This is not reasonable.

Exhibit 12 shows several different Mineral Resource zoned properties in the area. The MR zoned
properties along the Willamette River are within the floodplain. Location of a compost facility
within a floodplain area is not reasonable for economic as well as public safety reasons. Another
MR-zoned site is identified to the west of the subject property. However, that site is in active
mining use. Use of that property for the proposal would have adverse economic consequences
because it would require halting the mining operation and incurring start-up costs for the
composting facility. Additionally, it would likely require an exception to statewide planning Goal
5 if that property is identified as a significant Goal 5 resource site. For these reasons, it is
unreasonable for that mining area to accommodate the proposed use.

Page 11   - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
Exhibit 12 identifies one of several similarly situated Very Low Density Residential exception
areas that can be considered. Those exception areas include minimum parcel sizes of 2.5 or 5 acres
depending on the zone district. The Board finds that generally these parcels are too small to
accommodate the proposed use. In addition, these very low density residential exception areas
tend to clump residential use properties together, so conversion of any parce! into compost use
would likely generate resource industrial — residential use conflicts. The Board finds that it is not
reasonable to locate industrial uses in exception areas granted for residential use purposes.

There are no existing committed lands in the greater area that can accommodate the proposed use.

The proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated inside an urban growth boundary.               The
closest urban growth boundaries to the subject property are McMinnville, shown on Exhibit 12,
and Dayton, located to the north of the subject property just off the map edge of Exhibit 12. Neither
nearby city can reasonably accommodate the proposed compost facility uses that would be
facilitated by the proposed exception and map amendments. In addition to the large footprint the
compost facility would require, the general off-site impacts that result from the cooking of compost
materials are not well-suited to the compact arrangement of uses within urban areas. While such
impacts are typical of rural areas, in part because the typical distances between uses are much
greater in rural areas, the impacts from processing and cooking of compost tend to conflict with
urban uses, and it is not reasonable to relocate the existing compost operation to an urban area,

The there are no additional public facilities or services proposed or needed to accommodate the
proposed use. There are presently adequate public facilities and services provided to the subject
property to accommodate the expansion of the compost facility that the map amendments would
allow.

Therefore, as explained herein, while there are other lands in the County that are already designated
for RI uses, they are not as well-suited for the RI uses that currently take place and will continue
to take place on the subject property, because they are not located in the same general area. This
is the one of the few established compost facilities in the area. Furthermore, any RI designated
properties in the area would have to establish a new compost facility at significant cost to the
operator, whereas the composting operations at the subject property are already well established.
The proposal simply reconfigures where those RI uses can occur on the subject property by
exchanging RI designated land with EF-80 designated land and keeps roughly the same balance of
RI to EFU land that exists today. In that respect, no other properties are as well-suited for the
anticipated uses that are already planned for the property. The proposal is consistent with YCZO
1208.02(D).

6.     Regarding YCZO 1208.02(C), the applicant was required to demonstrate that the proposed
change is appropriate, considering the surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of
development in the area, any changes that may have occurred in the vicinity to support the
proposed amendment, and the availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the
anticipated uses in the proposed district. While the surrounding area is predominantly in farm use
and is rural in character, there are other nearby rural businesses. Carlton Plants is located north of
the existing composting facility. The manager of Carlton Plants has requested to have the

Page 12 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
composting piles extend into a different area so that it will be more compatible               with his
neighboring business. This application is, in part, to accommodate that request.

The surrounding area is generally in farm use and is rural in character. This proposal exchanges
some land planned for RI uses, with land planned for EF uses on a property that has an existing RI
compost use.     The uses that would result from the proposal are appropriate for the rural
environment and the density and pattern of development in the area and will help support the uses
on those other properties.

No changes have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and no additional
utilities or services will need to be extended to the anticipated uses that will take place with the
proposed district reconfiguration.

Regarding the availability of utilities and services in the area: the property has an on on-site well
but does not have an on-site sewer system, and one is not needed for the use.     Other services, such
as electricity, telephone, sheriff and fire protection, are already available in the area. The proposal
complies with YCZO 1208.02(C).

7.      Regarding YCZO 1208.02(E): the application includes a request and justification for a
reasons exception.  Findings determining applicable reasons exception criteria are met, are
provided below. Accordingly, this standard is met.

YCZO      1208.02 Conclusion:

The applicant has demonstrated that the proposal is consistent with the YCZO        1208.02 standards
for a quasi-judicial change to the zoning map.

Cc        Goal Exception Previsions and Analysis

Although the application is for exchanging areas of property planned and zoned RI Resource
Industrial and EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use, with more resulting acreage being planned and zoned
EF-80, state law requires justification of an exception to Statewide Planning Goals in order to
rezone the EF-80 property to RI.       In addition, while the intended use of the property is for a
composting facility, and composting is allowed in the farm zone on non-high value farmland, the
applicant’s property is high value farmland, thus triggering the requirement for an exception.
Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-004 contains the requirements for taking an exception to
the goals. Those standards are met as explained below.

OAR 660-004-0010 discusses the application of the Goal 2 exceptions process to certain goals.
Subsection (1)(a) specifically addresses Goal      3 — Agricultural Lands,     and provides that the
exceptions process in applicable to:

        (a) Goal 3 “Agricultural Lands;” however, an exception to Goal 3 “Agricultural
       Lands” is not required for any of the farm or nonfarm uses allowed in an exclusive
       farm use (EFU) zone under ORS chapter 215 and OAR chapter 660, division 33,

Page 13     - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A-          FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
        “Agricultural Lands,” except as provided under OAR 660-004-0022 regarding a
        use authorized by a statewide planning goal that cannot comply with the approval
       standards for that type of use;

FINDING:    As discussed in more detail below, the proposed plan designation and zoning is a use
provided under OAR 660-004-0022 (industrial development on resource land located outside of
an urban growth boundary) and is therefore subject to the exceptions process because it is not a
use allowed in an exclusive farm use zone. The applicant notes that while composting is allowed
in EFU zones, it is not allowed on high value farmland, and the subject property is considered high
value farmland.

OAR 660-004-0020 provides the criteria for a reasons exception. Each of the relevant OAR 660-
004-0020 provisions is addressed separately below. Note that OAR 660-004-0020(1) invokes
OAR 660-004-0022, and that the relevant provisions under OAR 660-004-0022 are addressed
under OAR 660-004-0020(1).

OAR 660-004-0020(1) provides:

        (1) If a jurisdiction determines there are reasons consistent with OAR 660-004-
        0022 to use resource lands for uses not allowed by the applicable Goal or to allow
       public facilities or services not allowed by the applicable Goal, the justification
       shall be set forth in the comprehensive plan as an exception. As provided in OAR
       660-004-0020(1), rules in other divisions may also apply.

FINDING: This is a gatekeeping provision that requires an applicant to demonstrate that there are
reasons consistent with those set forth under OAR 660-004-0020 to take a reasons exception. If
those reasons are met, then the reasons exceptions analysis can proceed; if the reasons are not met,
then the proposed use is not permissible through a reasons exception.

As demonstrated immediately below, the proposed use satisfies the requirements provided under
OAR 660-004-0022.

OAR 660-004-0022(1) provides, in relevant part:

        (1) For uses not specifically provided for in this division, or in OAR 660-011-0060,
       660-012-0070,    660-014-0030 or 660-014-0040,       the reasons shall justify why the
       state policy embodied in the applicable goals should not apply.

FINDING:     The requirements set forth in this provision do not apply because the use is a use
specifically provided for in another section of the division.

OAR 660-004-0022(3) provides:

Page 14-—- ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
        (3) Rural Industrial Development: For the siting of industrial development on
        resource land outside an urban growth boundary, appropriate reasons and facts
        may include, but are not limited to, the following:

        (a) The use is significantly dependent upon a unique resource located on
        agricultural or forest land. Examples of such resources and resource sites include
        geothermal wells, mineral or aggregate deposits, water reservoirs, natural
       features, or river or ocean ports;

        (6) The use cannot be located inside an urban growth boundary due to impacts that
        are hazardous or incompatible in densely populated areas; or

        (c) The use would have a significant comparative advantage due to its location
        (e.g., near existing industrial activity, an energy facility, or products available from
        other rural activities), which would benefit the county economy and cause only
        minimal loss of productive resource lands. Reasons for such a decision should
        include a discussion of the lost resource productivity and values in relation to the
        county's gain from the industrial use, and the specific transportation and resource
        advantages that support the decision.

FINDING: The proposed use is for industrial development (resource industrial) on resource land
(EFU) outside an urban growth boundary. The proposed use is eligible for a reasons exception
because it meets the reasons provided for under subsections (a) and (c) above.

The   proposal   satisfies   the requirements   of OAR   660-004-0022(3)(a)     because    the resource
industrial use at issue, composting, relies significantly upon feedstock (biological waste material)
generated by surrounding and nearby agricultural operations, including wineries and commercial
horse operations. The commercial viability of the proposed industrial use relies upon a steady
flow of feedstock from these agricultural uses.

The proposed use has a significant comparative advantage to other compost facilities due to its
close proximity to the farms and wineries that require its services, and therefore meets the
requirements of OAR 660-004-0022(3)(c).        This comparative advantage results in lower
transportation costs for customers to the facility as well as a savings in the time required to deliver
feedstock to the site and/or to purchase compost. This is the only compost facility in the immediate
area and the area benefits from the comparative advantage it has from its location. Expansion onto
EFU land as part of a designation exchange will allow the compost facility to expand to take even
greater advantage of this comparative advantage.

For each of the reasons provided above, the proposed siting of industrial development on resource
land is consistent with OAR 660-004-0022 and is eligible for a reasons exception. The proposal
is consistent with OAR 660-004-0020(1).

OAR 660-004-0020(2) provides:

Page 15 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
          (2) The four standards in Goal 2 Part II(c) required to be addressed when taking
          an exception to a goal are described in subsections (a) through (d) of this section,
          including general requirements applicable to each of the factors:

FINDING:       Each of the four standards of Goal 2 part II(c) is addressed separately below in the
responses to OAR 660-004-0020(2)(a) through (d).

OAR 660-004-0020(2)(a) provides:

        (a) "Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals should
        not apply." The exception shall set forth the facts and assumptions used as the basis
       for determining that a state policy embodied in a goal should not apply to specific
       properties or situations, including the amount of land for the use being planned and
          why the use requires a location on resource land;

FINDING:      There are several reasons that justify why the state policy embodied in Goal 3 should
not apply in this instance.

First, the reconfiguration of designations on the subject property will result in a net gain in EFU
designated land. Unlike most exceptions to Goal 3, which result in a net loss of land in resource
production, approval of the proposed map amendments will result in an increase in high value
farmland zoned for agricultural production.

Second, the county has demonstrated a need for resource industrial-designated property through
the taking of an exception that included land on the subject property and by having that exception
acknowledged. That exception accommodates the composting facility that currently operates on
the subject property. That need for such a facility continues, and approval of this exception will
facilitate the expansion of the resource-based industrial uses on the subject property. Resource
industrial uses, by definition, are heavily dependent upon natural resources and require proximity
to, if not location on, resource land.

Third, the purpose of the exception is to allow a map amendment that establishes a configuration
of existing plan designations and zoning districts on the subject property that promotes a better
harmony between uses on the subject and adjacent properties. This will permit expanded resource-
based industrial uses that will support additional agricultural economic activity with even fewer
potential impacts on existing adjacent uses.

Fourth, the topography of the subject property precludes compatible expansion of the needed
resource industrial use in a way that mitigates potential adverse impacts on adjacent properties.
The current plan designation and zoning district configuration forces expansion of the composting
operation to the areas closest to adjacent properties, especially in the north. Eastward expansion
of the compost use is not possible due to the steep elevation change adjacent to the existing
operations. Approval of the exception and the proposed map amendment will move expansion of
the composting operation from the north, which has been a concern of Carlton Farms located to
the north, to the central portion of the subject property.

Page 16     - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
Each of these reasons justify an exception to Goal 3 in this instance. Collectively, they provide
reasons for why an exception should be granted in this instance. The proposal complies with OAR
660-004-0020(2)(a).

QAR 660-004-0020(2\(b) provides:

       (b) “Areas that do not require a new exception cannot reasonably accommodate
       the use”. The exception must meet the following requirements:

       (A) The exception shall indicate on a map or otherwise describe the location of
       possible alternative areas considered for the use that do not require a new
       exception. The area for which the exception is taken shall be identified;

        (B) To show why the particular site is justified, it is necessary to discuss why other
       areas that do not require a new exception cannot reasonably accommedate the
       proposed use. Economic factors may be considered along with other relevant
       factors in determining that the use cannot reasonably be accommodated in other
        areas. Under this test the following questions shall be addressed:

       (i) Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated on nonresource land that
       would not require an exception, including increasing the density of uses on
       nonresource land? If not, why not?

       (ii) Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated on resource land that is
       already irrevocably committed to nonresource uses not allowed by the applicable
       Goal, including resource land in existing unincorporated communities,             or by
       increasing the density of uses on committed lands? If not, why not?

       (tii) Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated inside an urban growth
       boundary? If not, why not?

       (iv) Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated without the provision of a
       proposed public facility or service? If not, why not?

       (C) The “alternative areas” standard in paragraph B may be met by a broad review
       of similar types of areas rather than a review of specific alternative sites. Initially,
       a local government adopting an exception need assess only whether those similar
       types of areas in the vicinity could not reasonably accommodate the proposed use.
       Site specific comparisons are not required of a local government taking an
       exception unless another party to the local proceeding describes specific sites that
       can more reasonably accommodate the proposed use. A detailed evaluation of
       specific alternative sites is thus not required unless such sites are specifically
       described, with facts to support the assertion that the sites are more reasonable, by
       another party during the local exceptions proceeding.

Page 17 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
FINDINGS:     The Exhibit 12 map in the record of this proceeding is relied upon for these findings.
The map shows the zoning for the greater area around the subject property. The map identifies
various possible alternative areas for the proposed use and includes specific sites and generalized
areas. The subject property is identified in red with a green star. Possible alternative sites are
indicated by purple stars. Exhibit 12 is used in the analysis for both OAR 660-023-0020(2)(b) and
(c).

There are several possible types of alternative sites that are indicated on Exhibit 12. Of greatest
relevance are RI zoned properties in the vicinity of the subject property — one located directly
across SE Wallace Road (Hwy 221), and another property directly to the north on SE Palmer Creek
Road.   The RI zoned property to the immediate north is not considered because it is developed
with RI uses. Other exception areas for consideration include Mining Resource (MR) zoned
properties, both along the Willamette River and to the west, and Very Low Density Residential
(VLRD) zoned properties. Also, identified for consideration is the City of McMinnville.

This standard requires explicit responses to a series of questions that follow.

The proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated on nonresource land that would not require
an exception. As is plainly evident from Exhibit 12, the subject property is surrounded by resource
land that is composed of high value soils, or land that has received an exception to the resource
goals, or urban areas. Existing exception areas are developed and the reasons for the exception do
not permit the proposed compost use. Urban areas and compost facilities don’t mix due to
objections from urban dwellings related to odor.     This has been painfully apparent in the news
concerning the City of North Plains and the nearby Recology compost facility located in
Washington County.      Given the area’s location within the Willamette Valley, there is no
reasonably viable nonresource land to consider under this factor.

The proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated on land that is already irrevocably
committed to nonresource uses not allowed by Goal 3, whether in existing unincorporated
communities or by increasing the density of uses on committed lands. The nature of the proposed
rural industrial use, composting, is one that occupies the surface of the land and is not the type of
use that can be facilitated by increasing the density or intensity of the use. The most ideal
committed lands that could possibly accommodate the proposed use are the existing Ri lands either
directly across Hwy 221 or located to the north. As explained below, those lands are not
reasonably available to accommodate the compost use.

The adjacent property cannot reasonably accommodate the proposed use because the size of the
RI zoned parcel (2.52 acres) is smaller than the acreage needed and involved in the map
amendment (7.97 acres). Additionally, the applicant or some other entity or person would need to
establish composting operations at the site, which would incur start-up costs, making it
prohibitively expensive. Even if that site were to be combined with the existing operations on the
subject property, the 2.52-acre parcel would not be sufficient to accommodate the expansion needs
and would require frequent compost vehicle crossings of an intersection in order to turn cooking
compost or to facilitate sales. This would pose an increased risk to vehicles traveling on both SE

Page 18 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
Wallace Road and SE Alderman Road. For these reasons, the adjacent property cannot reasonably
accommodate the proposed use.

The RI zoned property to the north on SE Palmer Creek Road is of sufficient size to accommodate
the compost uses, however that property is fully developed with existing uses.           Consequently,
conversion of that property to support the compost use would entail ending an existing business,
removal of existing structures and equipment, and the new establishment of the infrastructure
needed for composting operations. This is not reasonabie.

Exhibit 12 (in the record) shows several different Mineral Resource zoned properties in the area.
The MR zoned properties along the Willamette River are within the floodplain. Location of a
compost facility within a floodplain area is not reasonable for economic as well as for public safety
reasons. Another MR zoned site is identified to the west of the subject property. However, that
site is in active mining use. Use of that property for the proposal would have adverse economic
consequences because it would require halting the mining operation and incurring start-up costs
for the composting facility.     Additionally, it would likely require an exception to statewide
planning Goal 5 if that property is identified as a significant Goal 5 resource site. For these reasons,
it is unreasonable for that exception area to accommodate the proposed use.

Exhibit 12 identifies one of several similarly situated Very Low Density Residential exception
areas that can be considered. Those exception areas include minimum parcel sizes of 2.5 or 5 acres
depending on the zone district. Generally, these parcels are too small to accommodate the
proposed use.    In addition, these very low density residential exception areas tend to clump
residential use properties together, so conversion of any parcel into compost use would likely
generate resource industrial — residential use conflicts. It is not reasonable to locate industrial uses
in exception areas granted for residential use purposes.

There are no existing committed lands in the greater area that can accommodate the proposed use.

The proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated inside an urban growth boundary.                 The
closest urban growth boundaries to the subject property are McMinnville, shown on Exhibit 12,
and Dayton, located to the north of the subject property just off the map edge of Exhibit 12. Neither
can reasonably accommodate the proposed compost facility uses that would be facilitated by the
proposed exception and map amendments. In addition to the large footprint the compost facility
would require, the general off-site impacts that result from the cooking of compost materials are
not well-suited to the compact arrangement of uses within urban areas. While such impacts are
typical of rural areas, in part because the typical distances between uses are much greater in rural
areas, the impacts from processing and cooking of compost is not reasonably located in urban
areas.

There are no additional public facilities or services proposed as needed to accommodate the
proposed use. There are presently adequate public facilities and services provided to the subject
property to accommodate the proposed map amendments and the expansion of the compost facility
that the map amendments would support.

Pape 19-~- ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
The proposal complies with OAR 660-004-0020(2)(a).

OAR 660-004-0020(2)(c) provides:

        (c) “The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences
        resulting from the use at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce
        adverse impacts are not significantly more adverse than would typically result from
        the same proposal being located in areas requiring a goal exception other than the
        proposed site.” The exception shall describe: the characteristics of each alternative
        area considered by the jurisdiction in which an exception might be taken, the
        typical advantages and disadvantages of using the area for a use not allowed by
        the Goal, and the typical positive and negative consequences resulting from the use
        at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce adverse impacts. A detailed
        evaluation of specific alternative sites is not required unless such sites are
        specifically described with facts to support the assertion that the sites have
        significantly fewer adverse impacts during the local exceptions proceeding. The
        exception shall include the reasons why the consequences of the use at the chosen
        site are not significantly more adverse than would typically result from the same
        proposal being located in areas requiring a goal exception other than the proposed
        site. Such reasons shall include but are not limited to a description of: the facts
        used to determine which resource land is least productive, the ability to sustain
        resource uses near the proposed use, and the long-term economic impact on the
        general area caused by irreversible removal of the land from the resource base.
        Other possible impacts to be addressed include the effects of the proposed use on
        the water table, on the costs of improving roads and on the costs to special service
        districts;

FINDING: Exhibit 12 (in the record) shows that the vast majority of land within the greater area
surrounding the subject property is in resource use. Given the area’s location within the Willamette
Valley, soils are generally of high quality and are very productive. Consequently, there are no
least productive properties to target for analysis and this justification considers resource land
generally.

The economic consequences of developing the proposed uses in resource areas that require a new
exception are significantly greater than if the plan and zoning map amendments occur solely on
the subject property. On the subject property, there will be a net gain in resource plan and zoned
land as a consequence of the proposed zoning exchange. This means the county will realize the
economic benefits of an expanded compost operation that is integrated to the existing operation,
as well as an increase in agricultural productivity because the land to be exchanged is high value
farm land and is adjacent to land currently in farm use. The same cannot be said of other resource
lands in the area. In all instances, conversion of resource land to resource industrial use will take
that land out of agricultural production with long term economic consequences. Additional
economic costs will derive from establishing a new industrial use at an undeveloped location and
the costs of either relocating the existing facilities to the new location, or of running a composting
operation that has components at different locations. The farther away the alternative resource

Page 20 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A-              FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
land is from the subject property, the higher those long term operating costs will be. The best
economic consequences result from granting an exception to Goal 3 and allowing the proposed
exchange of zoning designations within the subject property.

The social consequences of granting an exception for the subject property are also much less than
of doing the same on other resource land. The subject property already has a resource industrial
use approved for the property. Consequently, expansion of that compost uses would not appear
nearly as disruptive to the social character of the area in the same way as the creation of a new
resource industrial use on land previously used only for farm or forest purposes. Locating resource
industrial uses in an immediate area for which an exception had already been taken and that has
been historically planned for resource industrial uses is likely to be more socially acceptable than
the unnecessary conversion of resource land for resource industrial use.

There should be a minimal to no difference in the environmental consequences of replacing land
in resource use with resource industrial uses and vice versa. In neither instance is the land in a
natural environment state.      Compost facility operations must operate within DEQ permit
guidelines, so adverse environmental impacts are minimal and are monitored. Agricultural or
forest use of property, while not subject to environmental permitting, are not viewed as having
extreme adverse environmental impacts. The area on the subject property proposed for the
exception is on the higher-elevated portions of the subject property, consequently approval of the
exception is unlikely to adversely impact the water table or otherwise impact the environment in
the event of the Willamette River flooding. Some of the other areas that would require a goal
exception are within the floodplain and could result in greater adverse environmental impacts in
flood situations.

Expansion of the compost facility operations will not result in an increase in energy consumption
because the same amount of material can be brought to and processed at the site as now. The only
difference is the slight adjustment of the composting location on the property to avoid conflicts
with Carlton Farms. If the expansion area is located at some other site where an exception is
required, energy expenditures will increase as a result of the travel back and forth between
locations and other inefficiencies that would result from separate operations. If the entire compost
facility operations are relocated to the new site, then there will be the associated costs of preparing
the new site for full compost facility operations, relocating the facility and decommissioning the
existing facility. All of which would make the energy expenditures at other locations greater than
those that would flow from granting the proposed exception.

For the reasons provided above, the applicant has demonstrated that the long-term ESEE
consequences that would result from the use at the proposed site are not significantly more adverse
than would typically result from the same proposal being located in areas requiring a goal
exception other than the proposed site. The proposal complies with OAR 660-004-0020(2)(c).

OAR 660-004-0020(2)(d) provides:

          (d) “The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or will be so
          rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.” The exception

Page 21    - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
          shall describe how the proposed use will be rendered compatible with adjacent
          land uses. The exception shall demonstrate that the proposed use is situated in such
          a manner as to be compatible with surrounding natural resources and resource
          management or production practices. “Compatible” is not intended as an absolute
          term meaning no interference or adverse impacts of any type with adjacent uses.

FINDING: This proposal directly responds to this provision that promotes compatibility with
adjacent uses. As noted above, the purpose of the map change proposal is to reconfigure the
footprint of existing plan and zone designations on the subject property to mitigate potential
adverse impacts on resource industrial uses to the north and residences to the south. This proposal
achieves this by moving areas for compost use farther away from these adjacent uses resulting in
a net increase in EFU land available for agriculture than without the exception.         Through this
approval, expansion of the compost facility will be more compatible with these adjacent uses than
they currently are because the compost processing and cooking areas will be farther away from
adjacent uses and out of the “line of sight” of prevailing winds.

The map amendment proposal that the exception will support will also be compatible with
surrounding natural resource uses. The existing composting facility has operated adjacent to
farming activity on surrounding properties for some time and the subject property itself without
any conflicts, That should not change with the proposed map amendment. In fact, following
approval of the map amendment, there will be an additional 1.06 acres of EF-80 land adjacent to
other EF-80 land currently in agricultural use. This net-gain in EFU land should promote
agricultural production in the area,

The proposal satisfies the requirements of OAR 660-004-0020(2)(d).

For the reasons provided above, the proposed map amendments comply with the requirements for
a reasons exception to the resource goals.

E.   STATEWIDE PLANNING GOALS

 Goal 1 Citizen Involvement: To develop a citizen involvement program that insures
 the opportunity for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning process.

FINDINGS:

Yamhill County has an acknowledged zoning ordinance that ensures citizen involvement in all
phases of the planning process. This application is being processed following the procedures set
forth in the YCZO. Those procedures provide for public notice and an opportunity for citizens to
participate orally and in writing in the county proceedings for this proposal.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 1.

Page 22     - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
Goal 2 — Land Use Planning: To establish a land use planning process and policy
framework as a basis for all decisions and actions related to use of land and to assure
an adequate factual base for such decisions and actions.

FINDINGS:

Yamhill County has established a land use planning process and policy framework through
adoption of and adherence to the provisions of the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land Use Plan
and the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance. This proposal is being evaluated under the procedures
and approval criteria set forth in the YCZO, which assures that there is an adequate factual base
for a decision on the proposed action. The record contains information establishing an adequate
factual base for this decision.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 2.

 Goal 3 — Agricultural Land:     To preserve and maintain agricultural lands.

FINDINGS:

The proposal helps preserve and maintain agricultural lands in a number of ways. First, the EFU
zoned portion of the property will see a net gain of 1.06 acres of high quality soils. Second, the
EFU portions of the property will gain a large strip of usable land adjacent to the largest
agricultural field on the subject property, which should add efficiencies to the commercial farming
operations that take place there.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 3.

Page 23 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
 Goal 4 ~ Forest Land:    To conserve forest lands.

FINDINGS:

Goal 4 is not applicable to this proposal as the subject property and proposed action do not affect
any forest plan designation or use. The subject property is not acknowledged as forestland and is
not otherwise suitable for commercial forest use.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 4.

 Goal 5 — Open Spaces, Scenic and Historic Areas, and Natural Resources:                  To
 conserve open space and protect natural and scenic resources.

FINDINGS:

Goal 5 requires local governments to adopt programs that will protect natural resources and
conserve scenic, historic and open space resources for present and future generations. Goal 5 and
the Goal 5 rule sets forth a process where local governments must inventory, analyze and then
develop programs to protect these resources, which include mineral and aggregate resources. See
OAR 660-023-0030 through -0050.

Yamhill County has gone through the Goal 5 process and has identified its Goal 5 resources. None
exist on the western portion of the subject property.    This proposal does not impact any Goal 5
resources.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 5.

Goal 6— Air, Water and Land Resources Quality:          To maintain and improve the quality
of the air, water, and land resources of the state.

FINDINGS:

Goal 6 addresses waste and process discharges from development, and is aimed at protecting air,
water and land from impacts from those discharges. The existing discharge outfall on the property
is maintained in the RI district. This proposal will not allow any new types of uses that cannot
already take place on the subject property, it only changes where those activities can take place.
Some of those activities will require future county development approvals.     Future development
on the RI zoned portions of the property will be subject to the provisions of the YCZO, which may
operate to mitigate potential adverse impacts to air, water and land resource quality. Additionally,
for the compost uses that take place in the RI areas of the property, the operator is required to
obtain a DEQ permit and comply with permit requirements, which operate to protect air, water and
land resources.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 6.

Page 24 ~ ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
Goal 7 — Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards:           Yo protect life and property
from natural disasters and hazards.

FINDING:

Goal 7 requires that local government planning programs include provisions to protect people and
property from natural hazards such as landslides and floods. The portions of the subject property
that are the focus of this proposal are not in an area identified by the county as subject to natural
disasters or hazards.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 7.

Goal 8 ~ Recreational Needs: To satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of the
state and visitors and, where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary
recreational facilities to include destination resorts.

FINDING:

Goal 8 ensures the provision of recreational facilities to Oregon citizens.       The county has not
identified the subject property as a site needed for the county’s recreational needs. The proposal
will not impact the provision of recreational facilities to the public.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 8.

 Goal 9 — Economic Development: To provide adequate opportunities throughout the
 state for a variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and prosperity of
 Oregon's citizens.

FINDINGS:

The economic benefits of the proposal are many. The operation on the Resource Industrial planned
and zoned area is one of the few commercial compost facility located in the area. Given the strong
presence of commercial agricultural activity in the area, there is a significant need for disposal of
organic materials. It is inappropriate to dispose of compostable materials in a landfill if they can
be safely and economically processed into useable products, as they are at the subject facility. The
most economically beneficial means of processing organic wastes is through composting. In
particular, this facility serves and will continue to serve the significant needs of the many Yamhill
County and local area wineries. Service to commercial agriculture, in particular wineries, is a
significant economic benefit to Yamhill County.

Although the proposal will result in less land dedicated to resource industrial use, the proposed
map amendment will improve the economic benefits to be gained from the combined RI and EFU
uses because the proposal results in more operationally usable area dedicated to the RI use and
wiil make areas of previously unusable resource industrial dedicated lands available for EFU uses.

Page 25    - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
Consequently, both components of the land designation exchange will contribute to improved
economic development in Yamhill County.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 9.

Geal 10 — Housing:     To provide for the housing needs of the citizens of the state.

FINDINGS:

Goal 10 requires that communities pian for the residential needs of their residents. The county has
not identified the subject property as necessary for the county to meet its residential land needs or
as being suitable for residential use. While a portion of the property did receive an exception to
the resource statewide planning goals, it was for resource industrial uses, not for residential uses.
This proposal will not change the plan designation or zoning for land identified for residential uses
and will not otherwise adversely affect residential land.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 10.

 Goal 11 — Public Facilities and Services: To plan and provide a timely, orderly and
 efficient arrangement of public facilities and services to provide as a framework for
 urban and rural development.

FINDINGS:

The proposal does not affect the planning or development of future public facilities or services.
Given that the end uses already exist on the property and that the proposal simply reconfigures
those uses on the property without a need to relocate or to provide additional public facilities and
services to the site, the proposal raises no Goal 11 issues or adverse consequences related to the
county’s provision of public facilities and services.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 11.

 Goal 12—Transportation:       To provide and encourage a safe, convenient and economic
 transportation system,

FINDINGS:

Goal 12 is implemented through the Transportation Planning Rule (TPR) located at OAR 660-012.
OAR 660-012-0060(1) states that land use changes that significantly affect a transportation facility
require mitigation measures to address the anticipated transportation impacts. Such changes can
include amendments that change the comprehensive plan designation or the zoning district
designation of property because they hold the potential to alter the function, capacity or
performance standards of a transportation facility by altering the number and types of vehicle trips
allowed by the changed designations.

Page 26 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
The focus of the Goal 12 analysis is whether a change ‘significantly affects’ a transportation
facility. Ifa change does not “significantly affect” transportation, Goal 12 is satisfied and no
further analysis or action is required under the goal. OAR 660-012-0060(2) sets out when a
proposal significantly affects a transportation facility:

          (2)   A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a
                transportation facility if it:
                (a)     Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
                        transportation facility;
                (b)     Changes standards implementing a functional classification system,
                (co)    Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of
                        travel or access which are inconsistent with the functional
                        classification of a transportation facility; or
                (a)     Would reduce the performance standards of the facility below the
                        minimum acceptable level identified in the TSP.         OAR    660-012-
                        0060(2).

Often, a traffic impact study is required to demonstrate compliance with Goal 12. In this instance
a traffic study is not necessary because the overall uses and the scope of allowed uses on the subject
property will not change, just their locations.

The county's transportation system plan (TSP) is based on the reasonably anticipated traffic levels
generated by the uses consistent with the plan designations for a property. In this instance, the
TSP is based on the traffic volumes that would be generated by 26.50 acres of resource industrial
activity. Given that the proposed designation exchange results in 25.26 acres of RI designated
land, and that RI uses generate more traffic trips than EFU uses, the proposal results in a net
reduction of vehicle trips over that provided for under the county's approved TSP. Consequently,
the proposal will not allow types or levels of land uses that would result in levels of travel or access
that are inconsistent with the functional classification of impacted transportation facilities, nor will
it reduce the performance standards of any facilities because the total number of vehicle trips
resulting from the proposal represents a decrease in the number of trips anticipated under the TSP
and for which the functional capacity of surrounding transportation facilities is adequate.

Furthermore, because the proposal does not change the functional classification of any existing or
planned facilities, and does not change the functional classification system implementing
standards, the proposal does not significantly affect a transportation facility.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 12.

 Goal 13 — Energy Conservation:        To conserve energy.

FINDINGS:

Goal 13 mandates that uses developed on the land shall be managed and controlled so as to
maximize the conservation of all forms of energy, based upon sound economic principles. This

Page 27     - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
action does not result in any additional energy consumption on the subject property because it
simply reconfigures where existing permitted uses can take place on the subject property.      It
does not authorize any different or additional uses on the property.

Therefore the proposal is consistent with Goal 13.

Geal 14 - Urbanization:      To provide for an orderly and efficient transition from rural
to urban land uses.

FINDINGS:

Goal 14 sets out the general processes and requirements to convert rural land to urban land. This
action does not convert rural land to urban land; it only reconfigures the location of RI and EF uses
on the subject property. It does not change the nature of the permitted uses or allow urban uses on
rural land.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 14.

 Goal 15 — Willamette River Greenway: To protect, conserve, enhance and maintain
 the natural, scenic, historical, agricultural, economic and recreational qualities of
 lands along the Willamette River as the Willamette River Greenway.

FINDINGS:

Goal 15 requires that local governments protect, conserve and enhance several aspects of the
Willamette River through creation of the Willamette River Greenway. No portion of the subject
property is adjacent to the Willamette River or lies within the Willamette River Greenway. While
some of the eastern portion of the property lies within the Willamette River floodplain, the area
addressed by this proposal lies on the western portion of the property, well away from the
Willamette River. The proposal allows continuation of long-standing uses that have operated
without adverse impact to, and harmoniously with, the Willamette River, and relocates a portion
of the RI zoning footprint away from lower-lying lands to the upland portions of the property.

The proposal is consistent with Goal 15.

Goals 16 through 19 (Estuarine Resources, Coastal Shorelands, Beaches and Dunes, and
Ocean Resources):

FINDINGS:

There are no coastal, ocean, estuarine, or beach and dune resources related to the property affected
by this proposal.    Therefore, these goals are not relevant and the proposal will not affect
compliance with Goals 16 through 19.

The proposal is consistent with all Statewide Planning Goals.

Page 28   - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
OVERALL          CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

L.      The request is for a comprehensive plan amendment and zone change to exchange nearly
        equal amounts of land zoned EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use and land zoned RI Resource
        Industrial. The proposal involves 9.03 acres of RI zoned land being rezoned to EF-80, and
        7.97 acres of EF-80 land being rezoned to RI, including an exception to Goal 3, which the
        Board hereby approves.

2.     The   proposed      plan   amendment   and   zone   change   is   consistent    with   applicable
       Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

3.      The proposed change is consistent with all applicable Yamhill County code provisions
        including the zone change criteria of Section 1208.02.

4.      Due to the unique circumstances of the site the proposal complies with OAR 660-04-0020
        for a reasons exception.

 5.     The proposed change complies with all applicable Statewide Planning Goals including
        the Transportation Planning Rule.

DECISION:

Based upon the demonstration of compliance with all applicable YCZO provisions, County Plan
provisions, state law requirements and the evidence in the record, the Board approves the proposed
comprehensive plan designation map and zoning district map changes and reasons exception.

At the request of the Parties, the Board also modifies SDR-05-14 Condition 3, to read as follows:

“The composting facility shall be modified as shown on Exhibit 1, Pages 4, 5, and 6 of the
application, and located wholly within the RI Resource Industrial zone, with the exception that no
Composting Facility Operations as defined in the Restrictive Covenant which is Exhibit 13 to
PAZ-02-15,       shall occur in the area prohibited by said Restrictive Covenant      unless the parties
thereto agree in writing.”

SDR-05-14 may be modified consistent with applicable law without requiring an amendment to
this Decision.

CONDITION OF APPROVAL

1       The Applicant shall record the Declaration of Restrictive Covenant attached as Exhibit 4
to the Applicant’s application in the Deed and Mortgage Records of Yamhill County within a
period of 27 days after the following events have occurred: (1) County provides the Department
of Land Conservation and Development with notice of the final approval of the Application on the
required forms as required by ORS        197.610 to 197.625 and ORS      197.830(9), and (2) County

Page 29 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
provides the required published and individual notice to all persons entitled to individual notice of
this Approval Decision under ORS 197.615 and the County Code.

Page 30 - ORDINANCE 894, EXHIBIT A- FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL
               EXHIBIT -B- MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 894
     ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                           OCTOBER 22, 2015
                          DOCKET PAZ-02-15,
   APPROVAL TO CHANGE THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING MAP
       BETWEEN INDUSTRIAL (1) / RESOURCE INDUSTRIAL (RI) AND
AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING (AFLH) / EXCLUSIVE FARM (EF-80)

         CHANGE APPLIES TO THE SHADED AREAS AS IDENTIFIED ABOVE

                         Map Scale is: 1 Inch = 500 Feet

                                                           80. 15-437