Yamhill County Ordinance No. 951
IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON
FOR
 THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL
SI
TTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS
In
 the Matter of Repealing Ordinance No 946,
and Adopting Yamhill County Code Chapter
5.05 as the Yamhill County Ambulance
Service Code; and Declaring an Emergency
ORDI
NANCE 951
THE
 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for
the transaction of county business on May 7, 2026, Commissioners K it Johnston, Mary Starrett ,
and David “Bubba” King being present.
THE
 BOARD ADOPTS THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:
WHE
REAS, ORS 682.062 (1) provides that each county shall develop a plan for the county
or two or more contiguous counties may develop a plan r elating to the need for and coordination
of ambulance services and establish one or more ambulance service areas consistent with the plan
for the efficient and effective provision of ambulance services.
WH
EREAS, On March 6, 2003, the Board adopted Ordinance 723, the Yamhill County
Ambulance Service Ordinance (“ASO”) , requiring the establishment of an Ambulance Service
Area Advisory Committee (“the ASA Committee”) to develop an Ambulance Service Area Plan
WH
EREAS, on December 21, 2004, the Board adopted Ordinance 751, which amended
Ordinance 723 and which adopted the official Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area Plan,
now codified in the Yamhill County Code under Title 5, YCC 5.05, “Yamhill County
Ambulance Service Code” (“ASA Code”).
WHE
REAS, in accordance with ORS 682 and OAR 333-260-0000 through 333-260-
0070, in December of 2023 Yamhill County submitted its proposed amended Yamhill County
Ambulance Service Area Plan to the Oregon Health Authority (“OHA”) for review and approval
and, following revisions and modifications as requested by OHA, submitted its most recent
amended Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area Plan to OHA on August 22, 2025.
WH
EREAS, on October 1,  2025, the ASA Committee recommended approval of the
amended Ambulance Service Area Plan and amendment of the ASA Code to the Board.
WH
EREAS, on November 24, 2025, Yamhill County received written conditional
approval from OHA of its amended Ambulance Service Area Plan.
Yamhill County Ordinance No. 951
WHEREAS, on February 12, 2026, the Board adopted Ordinance 946 repealing the prior
ASA Code and adopting the amended Ambulance Service Area Plan and amendment of the ASA
Code as recommended by the ASA Committee.
W
HEREAS, it has since been determined that, due to a scrivener’s error, the amended
ASA Code adopted under Ordinance 946 did not include certain information recommended by
the ASA Committee and required by OHA but that this required information is now included in
the ASA Code attached hereto as Exhibit A; and now, therefore
T
HE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
S
ection 1. Repeal of Existing ASA Code. The ASA Code, codified as Yamhill County
Code Chapter 5.05 under Ordinance No. 946, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
S
ection 2. Adoption of Codified ASA Code. The codified ASA Code attached hereto as
Exhibit A is hereby adopted and shall be codified as Yamhill County Code Chapter 5.05.
S
ection 3. Severability. Invalidity of any section or part of a section of this Ordinance or
the ASA Code shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections or parts of sections thereto.
S
ection 4. Declaring an Emergency. This Ordinance being necessary for the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to
exist, is effective immediately.
DAT
ED this 7 day of May, 2026, at McMinnville, Oregon.
YAM
HILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
A
TTEST AYE NAY
________________________________
 _X_ ____
KERI HINTON Chair KIT JOHNSTON
County Clerk
B
y:______________________ ________________________________ _X_ ____
Deputy CAROLINA ROOK   Commissioner MARY STARRETT
F
ORM APPROVED BY:
___________________________
 ________________________________ _X_ ____
Kaleb Raever Commissioner  DAVID “BUBBA” KING
Yamhill County Counsel
Yamhill County Ordinance No. 951
Exhibit A
(
see attached)
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 1 of 29
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Title
5.05.01 SHORT TITLE
5.05.02 AUTHORITY
5.05.03 POLICY AND PURPOSE; ADOPTION OF AMBULANCE SERVICE AREA PLAN
5.05.04 OVERVIEW OF COUNTY (DEMOGRAPHIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESCRIPTION)
5.05.05 DEFINITIONS
5.05.06 BOUNDARIES; EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ACTIVITY
5.05.07 RESPONSE TIME ZONES; REPORTING STANDARDS
5.05.08 RESPONSE TIME REPORTING AND ACCOUNTABILITY
5.05.09 ASA BOUNDARIES NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION
5.05.10 MAPS DEPICTING “9-1-1,” FIRE DI STRICTS, AND INCORPORATED CITIES
5.05.11 ALTERNATIVES TO REDUCE RESPONSE TIMES
5.05.12 9-1-1 DISPATCHED CALLS
5.05.13 PRE-ARRANGED NON-EMERGENCY TRANSFERS AND INTER-FACILITY TRANSFERS
5.05.14 NOTIFICATION AND RESPONSE TIMES
5.05.15 LEVEL OF CARE
5.05.16 PERSONNEL
5.05.17 MEDICAL SUPERVISION
5.05.18 AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE AND PATIENT CARE EQUIPMENT
5.05.19 VEHICLES
5.05.20 TRAINING
5.05.21 QUALITY IMPROVEMENT; STRUCTURE; PROCESS
5.05.22 ANNUAL REVIEW OF PLAN AND PROVIDERS; OTHER BUSINESS
5.05.23 CONFIDENTIALITY
5.05.24 QUALITY IMPROVEMENT; PROBLEM RESOLUTION
5.05.25 SANCTIONS; SUSPENSION, MODIFICATION, OR REVOCATION OF A COUNTY ASA
5.05.26 ORDINANCE VIOLATION; NUISANCE
5.05.27 ENTITY THAT SHALL ADMINISTER AND REVISE THE ASA PLAN
5.05.28 COMPLAINT REVIEW PROCESS
5.05.29 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS
5.05.30 CONTRACTOR AGREEMENTS
5.05.31 DISASTER RESPONSE
5.05.32 MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT PLAN
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
TITLE 5: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Chapter 5.05: Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 2 of 29
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
APPENDIX A- Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area Plan
APPENDIX B- Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area Boundary Map
APPENDIX C- EMS Volume Location by Incident Map; 2021
APPENDIX D- EMS Volume Heat Map; 2021
APPENDIX E- EMS Volume Distribution Graph
APPENDIX F- Yamhill County Response Time Zones Map
APPENDIX G- EMS Response Time Standards Chart
APPENDIX H-Yamhill County Incorporated Cities Map
APPENDIX I- Yamhill County Fire District Map
APPENDIX J- Yamhill County Fire Station & Fire Stations with EMS Assets Map
APPENDIX K- Recommended Minimum EMS Ambulance Unit Staffing by ASA (2020 Data) to Meet 90%
Response Time Standard Table
APPENDIX L Mass Casualty Incident Plan
APPENDIX M County Emergency Operations Plan
5.05.01 Title.
a) Title. This Ordinance shall be known as the Yamh ill County Ambulance Service Ordinance and may be so
cited and pled.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. XXX eff XX/XX/XX]
5.05.02 Authority
a) This Chapter is adopted pursuant to ORS 682.031, ORS 682.036, and ORS 682.062, and is implemented
in accordance with OAR 333-260-0020 through 333-260-0060. These statutes and administrative rules
require each county to develop, adopt, and maintain an Ambulance Service Area (ASA) Plan, to establish
one or more ambulance service areas for the efficient and effective provision of ambulance services, and
to regulate and coordinate ambulance operations w ithin the County subject to approval by the Oregon
Health Authority.
5.05.03 Policy and Purpose; Adoption of Plan
a) Policy and Purpose. The Yamhill County Board of Commissioners finds:
(i.)  That ORS 682.031 requires Yamh ill County to develop and adopt a plan for the county, or jointly
with one or more contiguous counties, relating to the need for and coordination of ambulance
services, and to establish one or more Ambulance Service Areas (ASAs) consistent with that
plan to ensure the efficient and effective provision of emergency medical services and
ambulance transportation within the County.
(ii.)  That this Chapter, together with the Yamh ill County Ambulance Service Area Plan (ASA Plan),
constitutes the comprehensive plan for ambulan ce and emergency medical services within
Yamhill County. The ASA Plan establishes the County’s Ambulance Service Areas (ASAs),
defines the standards and procedures for the selection and regulation of ASA Providers, and
formalizes the structure and responsibilities of the Ambulance Service Area Advisory
Committee to ensure efficient, effective, a nd coordinated delivery of emergency medical
services throughout the County.
(iii.)  That state law, specifically ORS 682.031 and OAR 333-260-0020, requires Yamhill County to
develop and adopt an Ambulance Service Area Plan that coordinates ambulance services
within the County while recognizing the author ity of incorporated cities and rural fire
protection districts to operate and regulate emergency medical services within their respective
jurisdictions, subject to the County’s ASA Plan.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 3 of 29
(iv.) That the provision of coordinated, efficient, a nd effective ambulance services under the Yamhill
County ASA Plan shall be accomplished primarily through intergovernmental cooperation and
system coordination. Yamhill County shall pr omote voluntary compliance with the ASA
Plan and may employ enforcement actions or other remedies only when cooperative
measures are insufficient to ensure compliance or protect the public interest.
b) Adoption of ASA Plan. The Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area Plan, attached and incorporated
as Appendix A, is hereby adopted as the official ambulance service area plan for Yamhill County.
The Plan shall be forwarded to the Oregon Department of Human Services, Health Division, for
approval. Future amendments to the Plan may be made by Board Order with notice to the Oregon
Department of Human Services, Health Division.
5.05.04 Overview of County (Demographic and Geographic Description)
a) County Background. Yamhill County is one of 36 counties in the State of Oregon. Yamhill County’s
name derives from the Yamhelas Indians, members of the Native American Kalapuya Tribe. It is
located in the Willamette Valley and is part of the Portland, Oregon, Metropolitan Statistical Area
(MSA).
b) History. The Yamhill District (l ater becoming county) was established in 1843, five years before the
Oregon Territory was created. It originally spread over 12,000 square miles, which were eventually
partitioned into twelve present counties. Today, Yamhill County consists of 718 square miles. The
County seat of government is located in McMinnville.
c) Geography. The county is composed of a total area of 718 square miles, of which 716 square miles is
land with the remaining 2.5 square miles being water. It is the fifth-smallest county in Oregon by
area. The tallest mountain in the county is Trask Mountain in the northwest corner of the county.
The transportation network for Yamhill County is dominated by a road system of northeast-to-
southwest and north-to-south paved highways that are part of the state highway transportation
system. Local travel is by secondary and county roads that are significantly influenced by drainage
patterns of rivers and mountains in the county.
d) Adjacent Counties. Adjacent counties include Washington County (north), Clackamas County (east),
Marion County (southeast), Polk County (south), and Tillamook (west).
e) Demographics. Historical population data for Yamhill County is as follows: Census year 1860
population 3,245 with no percent change; 1870 population 5,012 with a 54.5 percent change; 1880
population 7,945 with a 58.5 percent change; 1890 population 10,692 with a 34.6 percent change;
1900 population 13,420 with a 25.5 percent change; 1910 population 18,285 with a 36.3 percent
change; 1920 population 20,529 with a 2.3 percent change; 1930 population 22,036 with a 7.3
percent change; 1940 population 26,336 with a 19.5 percent change; 1950 population 33,484 with a
27.1 percent change; 1960 population 32,478 with a
 change; 1970 population 40,213
with a 23.8 percent change; 1980 population 55,332 with a 37.6 percent change; 1990 population
65,551 with an 18.5 percent change; 2000 population 84,992 with a 29.7 percent change; 2010
population 99,193 with a 16.7 percent change; 2020 population 107,722 with an 8.6 percent change;
and 2021 estimated population 108,239 with less than one percent change.
f) Economy. Yamhill County ranks seventh out of Oregon's thirty-six counties in annual market value
of its agricultural production. This agricultural production includes wheat, barley, horticulture, and
dairy farming, with 13,201 acres in 1997 planted in orchards. One-third of the county is covered
with commercial timber, and the economic mainstay of the western part of the county is logging and
timber products. Yamhill County is a significant focus of Oregon's wine industry, having the largest
area of any Oregon county planted in vineyards. Six of the state's American Viticultural Areas are
wholly or partly in the county: Chehalem Mountains AVA, Dundee Hills AVA, Eola-Amity Hills
AVA, McMinnville AVA, Ribbon Ridge AVA, and Yamhill-Carlton District AVA. Over 80
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 4 of 29
wineries and 200 vineyards represent the largest concentration of wine growers and producers in any
county in the state.
g) Education. Yamhill County Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) include Linfield University,
George Fox University, the Chemeketa Community College Yamhill Valley Campus, and the
Portland Community College Newberg Center.
5.05.05  Definitions. The words and phrases in this Ordinance shall have the meaning provided in ORS Chapter
682 and OAR Chapter 333, Divisions 250, 255, 260, and 265, unless specifically defined herein to have
a different meaning. Other specific definitions for words and phrases in this Ordinance include:
a) “9-1-1" means a universal telephone number used to request emergency medical assistance.
b) “Administrative Rules” means the rules relating to emergency medical services adopted by the Oregon
Health Authority.
c) “Administrator” means the Health and Human Services Director for Yamhill County Health and Human
Services department or their designee.
d) “Advanced Life Support (ALS)” means out of hospital emergency care which encompasses procedures,
treatments, and techniques within the Advanced EMT (AEMT), EMT Intermediate (EMT-I), Paramedic, or
Registered Nurse scope of practice and are author ized by the EMS Supervising Physician. The maximum
functions that may be assigned to an AEMT, EMT-I and Paramedic are listed in OAR 847-035-0030.
e) "Advanced Life Support (ALS) Ambulance" means an ambulance that meets all County and State
requirements of an ALS capable EMS unit defined a bove. "Ambulance" means any privately or publicly
owned motor vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft that is regularly provided or offered to be provided for the
emergency transportation of persons who are ill or injured or who have disabilities (ORS 682.025(1)).
f) "Ambulance Service" means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, governmental agency or
other entity that holds a Division-issued ambulance service license to provide emergency and non-emergency
care and transportation to sick, injured or disabled persons. Ambulance Services do not include specialty
transport teams, ambulances owne d or operated under the control of United States government, vehicles
operated solely on facility grounds, transportation of clients from outside of the county to a health care facility
within the county, or ambulance or vehicles which are passing through without destination in the county.
g) "Ambulance Service Area (ASA)" means a geographic area, which is served by one ambulance service
provider, and may include all, or a portion of a county, or all or portions of two or more contiguous counties
(OAR 333-260)
h) "ASA Plan" is a plan that addresses the need for and coordination of ambulance services by establishing
ambulance service areas for the entire county and by meeting the other requirements of these rules (OAR 333-
260). “ASA Advisory Committee” means the governing body that makes recommendations to the Board on
the County’s ambulance service system and other as pects of the County’s ASA Plan. The ASA Committee
interfaces with the Board through the Administrator.
i) "ASA Provider" means a licensed ambulance provider designate d by the Board as the sole provider of
emergency ambulance service in a Yamhill County ASA. “Base Fee" means the fee charged for the pick-up
of a patient, exclusive of mileage. This fee shall be all-inclusive and shall not include "flag drop" or any other
charges.
j) “ASA Advisory Committee” means the governing body that makes recommendations to the Board on the
County’s ambulance service system  and other aspects of the Count y’s ASA Plan.  The ASA Committee
interfaces with the Board through the Administrator.
k) “Base Fee” me
 ans the fee charged for the pick-up of a patient,  exclusive of mileage. This fee shall be all-
inclusive and shall not include "flag drop" or any other charges.
l) “Basic Life Support (BLS)” means out of hospital emergency car e which encompasses procedures,
treatments, and techniques within  the Emergency Medical Responder (EMR) and/or Emergency Medical
Technician (EMT) scope of practice and are authorized by the Yamhill County EMS Supervising Physician.
The maximum functions that may be assigned to an EMR or EMT are listed in OAR 847-035-0030.
m) “Basic Life Support (BLS) Ambulance” means an ambulance, which meets all County and State
requirements and is staffed and equipped to providing service as defined by rule. “Board” means the Yamhill
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 5 of 29
County Board of County Commissioners.
n) “Board” means the Yamhill County Board of County Commissioners.
o) “County” means Yamhill County, Oregon. "Division" means the Oregon Health Authority (OAR 333.260).
p) “Division” means the Oregon Health Authority (OAR 333.260).
q) "Emergency" means those medical or trauma conditions that manifest themselves by symptoms of sufficient
severity that a prudent layperson possessing an average knowledge of health and medicine would reasonably
expect that failure to receive immediate medical attention would place the he alth of a person, or the fetus in
the case of a pregnant woman, in serious jeopardy.
r) "Emergency Medical Dispatch (EMD)" means that system adopted by the County used to interrogate a
caller requesting medical transportation in an effort to determine the severity of the medical condition.
s) “Emergency Medical Services (EMS)” means those pre-hospital functions and services which are required
to prepare for and respond to medical emergencies,  including transport, treatment, communications,
evaluation, and public education. Inter-facility medical transportation is not considered EMS and thus does
not constitute an EMS response. 9
t) “Emergency Medical Technician (EMT)” means a person who is licensed by the Authority as an
Emergency Medical Technician.
u) “Employee” means any full-time paid or part-time paid person acting within the scope of their duties and for
or on behalf of an ambulance service. “Franchise” me ans an exclusive franchise to provide emergency and
nonemergency ambulance service issued by the Board pursuant to this Ordinance.
v) "Hospital" has the meaning set forth in ORS 442.015(15).
w) "Inter-Facility Transfer" means any transfer, after initial assessment and stabilization, from and to a health
care facility to include hospital to hospital; clinic to hospita l; hospital to rehabilitation; and hospital to long-
term care.
x) “Incident Command System (ICS)” means a management tool employe d during disasters and emergency
responses to organize and coordinate response operations.
y) “License” means a non-transferable, non-assignable authorization granted to the person, agency or entity to
whom it is issued, authorizing the person, agency or entity whose name appears thereon to do business in the
county.
z) “Mass Casualty Incident (MCI)" means any incident involving, or potentially involving, multiple patients
as defined by rule. “Medical Resource Hospital (MRH)” means the medical communications facility which
provides on-line-medical-control for Multnomah and Clackamas counties.
aa) "Mutual Aid” means an agreement between emergency responders to lend assistance across jurisdictional
boundaries. "Non-Emergency" means those conditions that are not specifically dealt with in the emergency
medical dispatch system adopted by the County. The C ounty may further delineate categories that may be
handled by a non-emergency ambulance provider (e.g. inter-facility transfer).
bb) "Non-Emergency Ambulance Services" means pre -arranged or non-emergency ambulance transfers and
inter-facility ambulance transfers provided by a licensed ambulance service when the person being transported
needs the availability of medical assistance. It does not include stretcher cars, secure transport, or medical
taxes that do not provide medical services.
cc) "Notification Time" means the length of time between the initial receipt of the request for emergency
medical service by either a provider or  an emergency dispatch center (9 - 1-1), and the notification of all
responding EMS personnel. 10 “Offline Medical Control (OLMC)” means performing EMS actions or
medication administration under standing orders or protocols.
dd) “Online Medical Control (OLMC)” means a medical facility designated by the county as authorized to
provide on-line-medical-control advice and support to Paramedics, EMTs, and first responders.
ee) "Patient” means a person who is ill or injured or who ha s a disability and who receives emergency or
nonemergency care from an EMS provider. "Per Mile Charge" means a charge per mile in addition to the base
charge.
ff) “Person” means an individual, partnership, company, asso ciation, corporation, or any other legal entity,
including any receiver, trustee, assignee, or similar re presentative. "Provider" means any public, private, or
volunteer entity providing EMS.
gg) “Quick Response Team” , or “QRT” means an EMS unit supplied by a designated provider that may be
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 6 of 29
capable of BLS or ALS care but is not able to transport a patient. "Residential Care Facility" means a program
within a physical structure, which provides or coordinates a range of services, available on a 24-hour basis,
for support of residential independence in a residential setting (OAR 411-054-0005). "
hh) “Response Time" or “Response Times” mean the length of time between the notification of each provider’s
ambulance and the arrival of each provider's EMS unit(s) at the incident scene.
ii) “Supervising Physician" means a physician licensed under ORS 677.100 to 677.228, actively registered and
in good standing with the Oregon Medical Board, who provides direction of emergency or nonemergency care
provided by ASA Providers. Additionally, Supervising Physician means a physician contracted with or
employed by the County to act as the Supervising Physician and who shall perform those functions as outlined
in this chapter and rule.
jj) “Transport Unit” means an ambulance that is licensed and appropriately equipped and staffed to transport a
patient.
kk) “Wheelchair Car” means a motor vehicle for hire that is constructed, equipped, or regularly provided for
non-emergency transportation of persons in wheelchairs and semi-reclining wheelchairs (no more than forty-
five (45°) reclining) or requiring wheelchair car transportation for reasons related to health conditions and not
requiring an ambulance or transport in a supine or recumbent position.
5.05.06 Boundaries; Emergency Medical Service Activity
a) Oregon state regulations require each county to es tablish an Ambulance Service Area (ASA) Plan under
ORS 682.062.
b) The ASA Plan must be approved by both the Board and then by the Oregon Health Authority. Therefore,
it is the responsibility of Yamhill County as the local EMS regulatory agency to assure that safe and
reliable EMS response and ambulance transportation are available to the citizens and visitors of the county.
c) It is the intent of the Board to regulate, but not restrict, non-emergency ambulance, inter-facility
ambulance and wheelchair car services within the Count y. It is the intent of the Board to regulate the
primary emergency transportation agency within the County.
d) To ensure the effective and efficient provision of  EMS within Yamhill County, the Board reserves the
right, giving consideration to subjects and items required by law, to make modifications and enhancements
to the ASA Plan.
e) Yamhill County hereby establishes the Ambulance Service Areas (ASAs) shown on the maps and
described in the legal boundary descriptions attach ed to this Ordinance as Appendix B, which is
incorporated herein by reference and made part of this Ordinance.
f) Analysis of EMS volume within the County has identified the location density and distribution of activity,
as revealed in Appendices C, D, and E which are attached to this Ordinance and incorporated herein by
reference. The temporal dispersal of EMS activity  has been charted to provide ambulance service
providers valuable information to assist in staffing and deployment of EMS resources.
5.05.07 Response Time Zones; Reporting Standards
a) The primary objective of Response Time zones is to provide the most timely and efficient response to the
residents and visitors of the County in a cost-effective manner (“Response Time Zone” or “Response Time
Zones”). These Response Time Zones are stratified based on factors such as population density, major
routes of travel, topography, and access. Since EMS volume is strongly correlated to population density,
that is the major determinant of Response Time Zone designation. Historical Response Times from
ambulance and EMS resource stations have been analyzed as well and compared against both population
density and EMS call volume activity distribution.
b) In addition, Yamhill County has
  determined that further categorization of Response Times is appropriate
based on the severity of the patient’s condition. Life threatening and significantly serious illness or injury
require a faster response than other, less urgent EMS requests. Scientific data and industry studies have
shown that Response Time is far less important to patient outcome for less emergent cases than for critical,
life endangering conditions. The County has established two levels of EMS response that overlay the four
Response Time Zones. These are defined as ALS (Advanced Life Support) and BLS (Basic Life Support).
c) ALS cases should receive responses that include the use of emergency warning devices (EWDs), such as
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 7 of 29
lights and sirens, and be held to shorter time frames. BLS cases should receive responses that do not
include the use of EWDs and are held to less stringent Response Time standards.
d) Yamhill County is divided into four time zones for response. These zones are classified as: URBAN, with
Response Time standards of 10 and 15 minutes fo r ALS and BLS, respectively; SUBURBAN, with
Response Time standards of 12 and 17 minutes; RURA L, with Response Time standards of 35 and 40
minutes; and FRONTIER with a “Best Effort” standa rd for both ALS and BLS. as depicted on the
Response Time Zone Map adopted as Appendix F and incorporated herein by this reference.
e) The Urban Response Time Area is defined as the area of Yamhill County with a population density of
1,001 persons, or more, per square mile. The Suburban Response Time Area is defined as that area of
the County with a population density of between 501 persons per square mile and 1,000 per square mile.
The Rural Response Time Area is composed of those portions of Yamhill County that are populated to a
density of 501 or less persons per square mile. Lastly, the Frontier Response time Area is classified as
those areas with a population density of less than 501 persons per square mile and that lack roadway
access, or that require a drive time — this is a component of Re sponse Time — that exceeds 30 minutes.
The Frontier Response Time Area was established by mutual consensus of the Yamhill County ASA
Committee and includes those incorporated Cities outside the Urban zone.
f) There is one exception to these zone designations. That  is the town of Yamhill. While Yamhill is very
densely populated, sufficiently so to meet the herein definition of Urban, the actual aggregate number of
people residing there is insufficient to generate a ny significant EMS volume. Therefore, this ASA Code
identifies Yamhill as a Rural Response Time Area.
g) The minimum performance level for each Response Time  standard is 90 percent of all dispatched EMS
requests, except for those occurring during extreme weather conditions that interfere with vehicular travel,
hospital-to-hospital transfers, or other similar circumstances that would prohibit a normal response.
Complying with the Response Time Zone standards are the primary responsibility of each ASA Provider,
as set forth in the Response Time Zone standards and performance criteria adopted as Appendix G and
incorporated herein by this reference.
5.05.08  Response Time Reporting and Accountability The County has established the following process and
procedure for the reporting, assessment, and acc ountability of Response Times by designated ASA
providers:
a) Performance reports. ASA Providers will submit performance reports to the Administrator on a quarterly
basis, and Administrator will distribute these reports to the ASA Committee. The performance reports will
be submitted in a form approved by the Administrator; at a minimum, the reports must track monthly
compliance with each Response Time standard and must include mutual aid performance data.
b) Review. The ASA Committee will review each ASA provider’s performance report at quarterly meetings.
c) Audits. All data submitted for review of perfor mance standard compliance by ASA Providers may be
audited by the Administrator at any time.
d) Compliance Reports. Each ASA Provider will be he ld accountable to delineated required performance
standards through public compliance reporting.
e) Each ASA Provider’s performance will be reported to the community-at-large through a readily available
public reporting process (dashboard) that identifies each performance standard and the ASA Provider’s
compliance success.
f) This public reporting process (compliance reports and dashboard) will be posted prominently on the
County’s EMS website.
g) Annual report. The Adminis trator will conduct an a nnual evaluation of the pe rformance of the ASA
Providers and will report its findings to the Board. This requirement in no way limits the ability of the
Administrator to conduct further
 evaluations as deemed necessary.
h) Explanatory Reports. The ASA Committee may require an explanatory report from any ASA Provider
who fails to meet any establishe d performance standard in any re porting period. Such a report will be
submitted to the Administrator, and the Administrator will distribute this report to the ASA Committee.
i) Action Plan. Failure of an ASA Provider to meet the established performance standards in three
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 8 of 29
consecutive quarters, or four quarters in any six-quarter period, will require the ASA Provider to develop
an action plan. Such a plan will detail concrete steps, at least some of which being immediate, the ASA
Provider will take to achieve full compliance, and a timeline for achieving full compliance. This report
will be submitted to the Administrator, and the Admin istrator will distribute this report to the ASA
Committee.
5.05.09 ASA Boundaries Narrative Description
a) ASA # 1 East shall be assigned to  Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue. Situated in Yamhill County, Oregon,
beginning at the point where Yamhill and Clackamas counties meet at the Northeast corner of Section 13,
T3S, R2W, W.M; Thence northwest following the Ya mhill County line approximately 17.7 miles to a
point on the north line of Section 18, T2S, R3W, a pproximately 750 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road;
Thence southerly to the south line of said Section 18, to a point approximately 2,200 feet west of NE
Spring Hill Road; Thence S10°E generally parallel with NE Spring Hill Road, to the east end of the curve
and the south side of NE Laughlin Road approximate ly 2,000 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road; Thence
southwesterly along the easterly side of NE Laughlin  Road approximately 1,900 feet to the west line of
the Phillip Thompson Donation Land Claim No. 58; Thence S 5°E, approximately 3,300 feet to the
northeast corner of U.S. Government Lot 10, near the center of Section 30, T2S, R3W; Thence west on
the north line of said Lot 10, a distance of 942.31 feet to a 10” diameter stone shown on Survey No. 6805
of Yamhill County Survey Records; Thence S 0°08’51”E a distance of 2,690.83 feet to a 6” diameter stone
on the south line of said Section 30 and shown per said Survey No. 6805; Thence S19°E approximately
1.08 miles to a point the north line of Section 6, T3S, R3W, lying approximately 1,900 feet west of NE
North Valley Road; Thence west approximately 1,130 feet to the North ¼ corner of said Section 6; Thence
south on the center line of said S ection 6 a distance of approximately  1.0 mile to the North ¼ corner of
Section 7, T3S, R3W, Thence west approximately 2,640 feet to the northwest corner of said Section 7;
Thence south on the west lines of Section 7 and 18 approximately 1.40 miles to the northerly line of a
tract described in Instrument No. 200529012 (Park Trust to Mahon); Thence easterly approximately 1.78
miles to the northeasterly corner of the Calvin W. Ish Donation Land Claim No. 49; Thence southerly on
the easterly line of said Ish Claim No. 49 to the property line between Revana Family Partners, Deed No.
20060169, and Andrew H. Wilder, Deed No. 20017231; Thence southeasterly along the Revana/Wilder
line to the west line of Section 21, T3S, R3W; Th ence South approximately 1.60 miles to the southwest
corner of Section 28, T3S,R3W; Thence east along the south line of Section 28 approximately 3,700 feet
to the west property line of Caroline Crabtree-Osbor ne; Thence south and east on the Crabtree-Osborne
lines to the east line of Section 33, T3S, R3W; Thence south on the east line of Section 33 approximately
4,630 feet to the southerly side of Archery Summit Road ; Thence southeasterly on the southerly side of
Archery Summit Road to Oregon Highway 18 and continuing on an easterly projection to the Portland &
Western Railroad; Thence northeasterly along the railroad to the south side of Fulquartz Landing Road
(CR 79); Thence along Fulquartz Landing Road to the west side of NE Crawford Road (CR 181); Thence
south along the west side of NE Crawford Road to the southerly side of Riverwood Road (CR80); Thence
southeasterly along the southside of Riverwood Road to northwest corner of County Survey 3598 by J.G
Hefty, dated September 1912; Thence along the said survey lines S78°13’E, approximately 1,989 feet;
thence S77°16’E, approximately 489.60 feet; Thence N80°34’E, approximately 905.80 feet to the
Willamette River; Thence Northerly and following the Willamette River downstream to the north line of
Section 6, T4S, R1W and the county line; Thence west and north along the exterior of T3S, R1W, and the
county line to the place of beginning.
b) ASA #2 North shall be assigned to the McMinnville Fire District. Beginning on the northerly Yamhill
County line at a point on the north line of Section 18, T2S, R3W, approximately 750 feet west of NE
Spring Hill Road; Thence southerly to the south lin e of said Section 18, to a point approximately 2,200
feet west of NE Spring Hill Road; Thence S10°E generally parallel with NE Spring Hill Road, to the east
end of the curve and the south side of NE Laughlin Road approximately 2,000 feet west of NE Spring Hill
Road; Thence southwesterly along the easterly side of NE Laughlin Road approximately 1,900 feet to the
west line of the Phillip Thompson Donation Land Claim No. 58; Thence S 5°E, approximately 3,300 feet
to the northeast corner of U.S. Government Lot 10, near the center of Section 30, T2S, R3W; Thence west
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 9 of 29
on the north line of said Lot 10, a distance of 942.31 feet to a 10” diameter stone shown on Survey No.
6805 of Yamhill County Survey Records; Thence S 0°08’51”E a distance of 2,690.83 feet to a 6” diameter
stone on the south line of said Section 30 and shown per said Survey No. 6805; Thence S19°E
approximately 1.08 miles to a point the north line of Section 6, T3S, R3W, lying approximately 1,900 feet
west of NE North Valley Road; Thence west approx imately 1,130 feet to the North ¼ corner of said
Section 6; Thence south on the center line of said Se ction 6 a distance of approximately 1.0 mile to the
North ¼ corner of Section 7, T3S, R3W, Thence west  approximately 2,640 feet to the northwest corner
of said Section 7; Thence south on the west lines of Section 7 and 18 approximately 1.40 miles to the northerly line
of a tract described in Instrument No. 200529012 (Park Trust to Mahon); Thence easterly approximately 1.78 miles
to the northeasterly corner of the Calvin W. Ish Donation Land Claim No. 49; Thence southerly on the easterly line
of said Ish Claim No. 49 to the property line between Revana Family Partners, Deed No. 20060169, and Andrew H.
Wilder, Deed No. 20017231; Thence southeasterly along the Revana/Wilder line to the west line of Section 21, T3S,
R3W; Thence South approximately 1.60 miles to the southwest corner of Section 28, T3S,R3W; Thence east along
the south line of Section 28 approximately 3,700 feet to the west property line of Caroline Crabtree-Osborne; Thence
south and east on the Crabtree-Osborne lines to the east line of Section 33, T3S, R3W; Thence south on the east
line of Section 33 approximately 4,630 feet to the southerly side of Archery Summit Road; Thence southeasterly on
the southerly side of Archery Summit Road to Oregon Highway 18 and continuing on an easterly projection to the
Portland & Western Railroad; Thence northeasterly along the railroad to the south side of Fulquartz Landing Road
(CR 79); Thence along Fulquartz Landing Road to the west side of NE Crawford Road (CR 181); Thence south
along the west side of NE Crawford Road to the southerly side of Riverwood Road (CR80); Thence southeasterly
along the southside of Riverwood Road to northwest corner of County Survey 3598 by J.G Hefty, dated September
1912; Thence along the said survey lines S78°13’E, approximately 1,989 feet; thence S77°16’E, approximately
489.60 feet; Thence N80°34’E, approximately 905.80 feet to the Willamette River; Thence southerly and upstream
along the Willamette River and easterly county line to the point where Yamhill and Polk Counties meet; Thence west
along the Yamhill and Polk County line to the west side of SW Broadmead Road; Thence northeasterly along the
west side of SW Broadmead Road to the south line of Section 25, T5S, R5W; Thence west on the section lines of
Section 25 and 26 to the South Yamhill River; Thence northeasterly and following the Yamhill River downstream
to the Bellevue-Hopewell Highway Bridge; Thence westerly along the southerly side of Bellevue-Hopewell
Highway (OR 153) to the west side of Delashmutt Road (CR 28); Thence northerly along the west side of Delashmutt
Road approximately 1,800 feet to the south line of Section 22, T5S, R5W; Thence north approximately 1.0 miles
along the east section lines of 22 and 15 to the north side of SW Sauter Road; Thence westerly along the north side
of SW Sauter Road through the “S” curve, approximately 4,500 feet to a point near the Boundy/Christensen property
line. Thence north passing through milepost 39 of OR HWY 18 approximately 3,150 feet to the southeast corner of
Erratic Rock State Nature Site; Thence west along the south line of Erratic Rock State Nature Site approximately
1,000 feet to the southwest corner thereof adjacent with SW Dusty Drive; Thence north along a series of common
property lines, approximately 5,600 feet to the northeast corner of the Momtazi Family LLC property described in
Instrument No. 1997-16865 of the Yamhill County Clerk’s Records; Thence west Momtazi property approximately
1,320 feet to the east line of Section 9, T5S, R5W; Thence south along the section line approximately 1,320 feet to
the east ¼ corner of Section 9; Thence west along the centerline of Section 9 approximately 1,850 feet; Thence south
approximately 2,640 feet to the southeast corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence west approximately 2,640 feet
to the southwest corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence north approximately 2,500 feet to the southerly corner
of the James Colman Donation Land Claim No. 40; Thence N 54°W along the Colman Donation Claim
approximately 990 feet to the east side of SW Muddy Valley Road (CR 19); Thence northerly up the east side of
SW Muddy Valley Road to the bridge across Muddy Creek in the northwest ¼ of Section 4, T5S, R5W; Thence
northwesterly upstream along Muddy Creek approximately 3.25 miles to the south line of Section 19, T4S, R5W;
Thence west approximately 0.9 Miles to the southeast corner of Section 24, T4S, R6W; Thence north 2 miles on
the section lines to the northeast corner of Section 13, T4 S, R6W; Thence west 4 miles on the section lines to the
southwest corner of Section 9 T4S, R6W; Thence north 2 miles to the southeast corner of Section 32, T3S, R6W;
Thence west 1 mile to the west county line; Thence north 12 miles and east approximately

19.3 miles along the county line to the place of beginning.
c) ASA #3 South Central shall be assigned to the Sheridan Fire District. Beginning at the intersection of the
Yamhill and Polk County line and the west side of SW Broadmead Road located in Section 2, T6S, R5W;
Thence northeasterly along the west side of SW Br oadmead Road to the south line of Section 25, T5S,
R5W; Thence west on the section lines of Section 25 and 26 to the South Yamhill River; Thence
northeasterly and following the Yamhill River downstream to the Bellevue-Hopewell Highway Bridge;
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 10 of 29
Thence westerly along the southerly side of the Bellevue-Hopewell Highway (OR 153) to the west side
of Delashmutt Road (CR 28); Thence northerly along the west side of Delash mutt Road approximately
1,800 feet to the south line of Section 22, T5S, R5W;Thence north approximately 1.0 miles along the east
section lines of 22 and 15 to the north side of SW Sauter Road; Thence westerly along the north side of
SW Sauter Road through the “S” curve, approximately 4,500 feet to a point near the Boundy/Christensen
property line. Thence north passing through milepost 39 of OR HWY 18 approximately 3,150 feet to the
southeast corner of Erratic Rock State Nature Site; Thence west along the south line of Erratic Rock State
Nature Site approximately 1,000 feet to the southwest corner thereof adjacent with SW Dusty Drive;
Thence north along a series of common property lines , approximately 5,600 feet to the northeast corner
of the Momtazi Family LLC property described in Instrument No. 1997-16865 of the Yamhill County
Clerk’s Records; Thence west Momtazi property approximately 1,320 feet to the east line of Section 9,
T5S, R5W; Thence south along the section line approximately 1,320 feet to the east ¼ corner of Section
9; Thence west along the centerline of Section 9 approximately 1,850 feet; Thence south approximately
2,640 feet to the southeast corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence west approximately 2,640 feet to the
southwest corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence  north approximately 2,500 feet to the southerly
corner of the James Colman Donation Land Claim No. 40; Thence N 54°W along the Colman Donation
Claim approximately 990 feet to the east side of  SW Muddy Valley Road (CR 19); Thence northerly up
SW Muddy Valley Road to the bridge across Muddy Cree k in the northwest ¼ of Section 4, T5S, R5W;
Thence northwesterly upstream along Muddy Creek approximately 3.25 miles to the south line of Section
19, T4S, R5W; Thence west approximately 0.9 Miles to  the southeast corner of Section 24, T4S, R6W;
Thence north 2 miles on the section lines to the northeast corner of Section 13, T4S, R6W; Thence west
4 miles on the section lines to the southwest corner of Section 9 T4S, R6W; Thence south 4 miles on the
section lines to the southwest corner of Section 33, T4S, R6W; Thence east on the south line of Section
33 approximately 0.18 miles to the westerly side of Rock Creek Road (CR 415); Thence southwesterly
along the westerly side of Rock Creek Road approximately 4.8 miles to the west line of Section 21, T5S,
R6W; Thence south on the section lines 2.25 miles to the southerly side of Oregon Highway 18 Business
(W. Main Street); Thence southwesterly along the southerly side of Oregon Hwy 18 approximately 0.9
miles to the east line of Section 6, T6S, R6W; Thence south on the east line of Section 6 approximately
0.75 miles to the Yamhill and Polk County Line. Thence east on the County line approximately 9.3 miles
to the east side of SW Broadmead Road and the point of beginning.
d) ASA # 4 West shall be assigned to the Grand Ronde Fire Department. Be ginning on the Yamhill and
Tillamook County line at the northwest corner of Section 5, T4S, R6W; Thence east 1 mile to the northeast
corner of Section 5, T4S, R6W; Thence south 6 miles on the section lines to the southwest corner of
Section 33, T4S, R6W; Thence east on the south line of Section 33 approximately 0.18 miles to the
westerly side of Rock Creek Road (CR 415); Thence southwesterly along the westerly side of Rock Creek
Road approximately 4.8 miles to the west line of Section 21, T5S, R6W; Thence south on the section lines
2.25 miles to the southerly side of Oregon Highway 18 Business (W. Main Street); Thence southwesterly
along the southerly side of Oregon Hwy 18 approxima tely 0.9 miles to the east line of Section 6, T6S,
R6W; Thence south on the east line of Section 6 approximately 0.75 miles to the Yamhill and Polk County
Line. Thence west, north, east, and north approximately 44.75 miles on the county line to the point of
beginning.
5.05.10 Maps Depicting “9-1-1,” Fire Districts and Incorporated Cities
a) Maps depicting Incorporated Cities are adopted as Appendix H and incorporated herein by this reference.
b) Maps depicting Fire districts are adopted as Appendix I and incorporated herein by this reference.
c) Maps depicting Fire Stations and Fire Stations  with EMS assets are adopted as Appendix J and
incorporated herein by this reference.
5.05.11 Alternatives to Reduce Response Times
a) The County has policies and procedur es in effect that monitor emergency ambulance Response Time
performance by all ASA Providers. The County expects the ASA Providers to employ industry best practices,
data driven strategies, and sound professional judgment in meeting established Response Time requirements.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 11 of 29
The goal is to responsibly, reliably, and safely deliver Response Times, while also considering certain clinical
outcomes in addition to Response Times.
b) Employing the use of closer, first response units in responding to critical EMS cases, or even Quick Response
Teams (QRT), are mechanisms organizations are encouraged to use to reduce Response Times to emergencies.
These types of EMS units, while not transport capable, can deliver trained personnel faster to the scene than
more regionally located ambulances.
c) Other methodologies the County expects each ASA Pr ovider to implement to reduce Response Times and
improve patient outcomes include:
(i) Develop and use standard operating procedures,
(ii) Support a trained and qualified workforce,
(iii) Maintain adequate communications equipment,
(iv) Utilize coordinated communication,
(v) Promote information exchanges among public safety response agencies,
(vi) Coordinate with hospitals to reduce wait times; and
(vii) Educate the public on the 9-1-1 system and services.
d) Research from Europe, and a few pilot programs in the United States, have shown that drones (UAV) may
provide an option for many EMS systems to improve re sponse to critical emerge ncies and improve patient
outcomes. They appear to be most advantageous for rural and frontier regions where EMS response can easily
exceed 20 minutes. When UAVs are equipped with AEDs (Automatic External Defibrillators) and EpiPens,
as an example, and configured to provide two- way audio communication, they can deliver life-saving
modalities to the patient’s side and permit instruction to direct by-standers on usage.
e) Some UAV systems have been developed that use remote outside storage structures that maintain battery
charge for the unit and protect it from inclement weather conditions. These “drone stations” could be located
strategically throughout a remote or rural region to enhance the response capability of the local EMS services.
When equipped with video capabilities, UAVs may also be used to provide situational awareness for EMS
units and communications centers by deployment over particular incidents, especially when multiple patients
are involved or safety conditions at a scene are in  question. While limited by battery life, UAVs still have
important applications for EMS systems and individual units, such as First Responder apparatus.
f) Some medical device manufacturing companies have introduced the concept of community wide distribution
of AEDs, including in personal residenc es. These devices are connected to a network that incorporates with
the local 911 communications center which allows the devices to be alerted when a potential cardiac arrest is
occurring within a set distance. Individuals of the lay public can remove the AED from its wall-mounted
station and respond to the scene to render aid. The id ea that the public can respond to many out-of-hospital
cardiac arrests (OHCA) with an AED faster than EMS providers is factual in many cases. This concept could
be expanded in the future to include EpiPens and tourniquets. In addition, some communities have launched
registries for AEDs that are located in public buildings  and private companies, maintaining that information
with their emergency communications centers. In these cases, when an OHCA call is received by the 911
center, they are able to locate the closest AED and advise the caller.
g) The County recognizes that it is not just Response Times that lead to a reduction in mortality. In fact, there is
a significant amount of research that indicates, outside  of cardiac arrests, Response Times have a minimal
impact on patient outcomes and length of stay time in the hospital. It is often the case that time to first clinical
intervention plays a more significant role in out of hospital survival rates. Research shows there is no evidence
of increased mortality for priority patients where ALS Response Time exceeded 10:59 minutes . Other studies
concluded that, “a paramedic response time within eight minutes was not associated with improved survival
to hospital discharge. Adherence to the eight-minute response time guideline in most patients who access out-
of-hospital emergency services is not supported by these results”. Additionally, focusing solely on Response
Times can have a negative impact ove rall on syste
 m performance. First, the community needs to invest
significant dollars for the cost of readiness to assure the ambulance can arrive in the designated time interval.
Second, many more paramedics are needed in the system staffing those ambulances. Third, crews are held to
a Response Time standard that can only be achieved by the constant use of red lights and sirens. This exposes
them to a higher incidence of ambulance-involved mo tor vehicle collisions and potentially crewmember
injuries along with an increased fatigue factor that has the potential for clinical errors. To this end, the County
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 12 of 29
will closely monitor Response Times to ensure they do not exceed the established benchmarks but will also
continually review the efficacy of Response Times in general. The County will further begin development of
clinical performance standards that have been shown to  be related directly to patient outcomes. The County
will strive to establish consensus-accepted clinical performance standards as an important measure of the
quality of the system’s overall performance and as required benchmarks for achievement for ASA Providers.
h) Over the next five years, the ASA Committee will be considering what clinical data is identified as important
by current in-field medical research for patient care , as well as improved patient  outcomes, and determine
how that information may be collected. The ASA Committee has been charged with reviewing and
determining what clinical performance standards should be used in the Yamhill EMS system in the future.
5.05.12 9-1-1 Dispatched Calls
a) Yamhill County utilizes the Yamhill Communica tions Agency (YCOM) and the Newberg-Dundee
Communications Center (NDCC) to provide emergency medical services (EMS) call answering,
processing, and dispatching. NDCC transfers incoming EMS requests to the Washington County
Consolidated Communications Agency (WCCCA) for final disposition of the case.
b) Upon a request for medical assistance, YCOM or WCCCA shall simultaneously dispatch the closest
available fire department first -response unit, if applicable, and the appropriate emergency ambulance
service. Dispatch performance shall be monitored internally by the dispatch centers and externally by the
Yamhill County Department of Health.
c) YCOM uses the International Academies of Emergenc y Dispatch Medical Priority Dispatch System for
triaging and prioritizing EMS calls. WCCCA uses the APCO EMS triage system. Both centers shall
maintain operational readiness to incorporate em erging communication technologies, including voice,
text, image, and video transmissions, consistent with modern 911 standards. The network and PSAP shall
be capable of receiving e nhanced location data and multimedia content to support accurate and efficient
emergency response.
d) PSAP operations, facilitie s, and employee training shall conform to minimum standards recognized by
public safety industry organizations. These orga nizations include the International City/County
Management Association (ICMA), National Emergenc y Number Association (NENA), Association of
Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO), Inte rnational Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC),
Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA), and the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA).
5.05.13 Pre-Arranged Non-Emergency Transfers and Inter-Facility Transfers
a) All pre-arranged, non-emergency ambulance services a nd inter-facility ambulance transfers originating
within Yamhill County shall be included within the franchise rights and ambulance service area
boundaries granted to ASA Providers.
b) This section does not apply to ambulances or vehi cles exempt from the ASA Plan, including but not
limited to specialty transport teams, ambulances owned or operated under the control of the United States
Government, vehicles operated solely on facility gr ounds, transportation of patients from outside the
County to a health ca re facility within the County, or ambulance s or vehicles passing through without a
destination in the County. Non-emergency ambulance se rvices also do not include stretcher cars, secure
transport, or medical taxis that do not provide medical services.
c) The assigned ASA Provider shall have the right of first refusal for non-emer gency ambulance services
and inter-facility ambulance transfers originating with in its a
 ssigned ASA. This right shall not apply to
any person who is not an assigned ASA Provider and who had an existing written contract prior to July 1,
2009, with a health care provider located in Yamhill County for non-em ergency ambulance services or
inter-facility ambulance tr ansfers. if the assigned ASA Provid er refuses a non-emergency ambulance
service or inter-facility ambulance transfer, a pers on who is not an assigned ASA Provider may provide
the non-emergency ambulance service or inter-facility transfer.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 13 of 29
d) Non-emergency ambulance services and inter-facility ambulance tran sfers are excluded from Response
Time reporting requirements but may be subject to additional reporting requirements established by the
ASA Committee or the Board. All other operational ru les, service standards, and customer service
requirements applicable to emergency ambulance serv ices shall also apply to  non-emergency and inter-
facility ambulance transfers.
5.05.14 Notification and Response Times
a) The County relies upon both WCCCA and YCOM to provide the services of notification and tracking call
disposition for all EMS cases in the County. Through their Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) systems and
radio communications networks, both centers maintain the records needed, as well as historical
performance of all ASA Providers within the County. Response Times for each ASA Provider are captured
within the centers’ data bases and available to the County and associated organizations.
b) The County and the Ambulance Service Area (ASA ) Committee shall regularly review Response Time
data to evaluate performance and identify areas of  concern. Once identified, ef forts shall be made to
improve out-of-compliance performance. The County shall provide assistance as needed to support plans
established to assure maintenance of adequate response time performance by all ASA Providers.
5.05.15 Level of Care
a) Currently, the ASA Providers designated by the County to provide EMS within their individual ASAs
provide predominantly Advanced Life Support. However, on occasion, sufficient ALS practitioners may
not be available or scheduled, in which case the ASA Provider staffs Basic Life Support ambulances to
provide care. Some ASA Providers expect to place standard BLS ambulance units into service on a
regular basis. All ASA Providers have ALS and if the ASA Provider drops exclusively to a lower level
of care (i.e. BLS only) notification will be provided to the County and other ASA Providers with whom
they have mutual aid agreements.
b) The recommended minimum number of EMS ambulance units, based on 2020 data, needed in each ASA
within the County to meet the 90 percent response time standard is set forth in Appendix K, which is
adopted and incorporated herein by this reference. ASA Providers are required to meet the 90 percent
response time standard and are allowed to staff their agency as they see fit in order to meet the 90
percent standard.
c) Changes to the recommended minimum number of EMS ambulance units needed (as described in the
table above) should be data driven and recommended by the ASA Committee to the Board in order to
update the ASA Plan. This should be done every 5 years. ASA Providers are still allowed to staff their
system as they see fit to meet the 90% response time standard as stated above.
5.05.16 Personnel
a) When operating an ambulance in Yamhill County, all ASA Provider personnel must meet the
requirements of ORS Chapter 682 and OAR 333-255-0070 (1), (4) or (6).
b) Anyone staffing an ambulance must not have consumed alcohol beverages in the eight hours before
working or in any way be impaired by the ingestion of alcohol. Anyone staffing an ambulance must not
be taking any medications that would impair their ability to care adequately and safely for a patient.
c) Each person staffing an ambulance or providing pre-hospital emergency medical care in the County is
required to display their level of certification/licensure and, at a minimum, their first name on the
outermost garment of their work uniform and must make reasonable efforts to display this information
under other circumstances. At a minimum, this uniform shall bear the name of the agency or ASA
Provider providing the service. Reasonable exceptions are made for clothing used to protect the
responders from injury or illness including turnout gear
 , hazardous materials suits, or other personal
protective equipment.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 14 of 29
d) Each person staffing an ambulance or providing pre-hospital emergency medical care is required to wear
a standardized uniform as determined by the employing agency. Uniforms shall be clean and free of
excessive wear and tear and free of blood and/or bodily materials. Reasonable exceptions shall be
granted to uniforms soiled during the course of providing service as long as they are cleaned and
changed at the first appropriate opportunity.
e) Each ASA Provider shall have in place a pre-employment and for-cause drug and alcohol screening
program. This program shall be on file with the Administrator. Each ASA Provider shall have in place a
criminal background check program. This program shall be on file with the Administrator. Upon a
reasonable request by the Administrator, a criminal background check may be required of any person
providing direct patient services.
5.05.17 Medical Supervision
a) Each ASA Provider utilizing EMTs shall be supervised by a physician licensed under ORS 677, actively
registered and in good standing with the Board of Medical Examiners as a Medical Doctor (M.D.) or
Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.). The Board of Medical Examiners must also approve the
physician as a Supervising Physician. Each ASA Provider or ambulance service will identify a
Supervising Physician. The Supervising Physician shall comply with the medical requirements listed in
OAR 847-35-0025.
b) Willamette Valley Medical Center and Providence Newberg shall be the Yamhill County EMS System
Medical Resource Hospitals. Other hospitals outside of those listed may be used as required for proper
patient care and transport.
5.05.18 Ambulance Service License and Patient Care Equipment
a) All ambulances and ambulance services in Yamhill County must be licensed with the Oregon Health
Authority, EMS Section, and be equipped with equipment and supplies that comply with the OARs for
ALS, ILS and BLS ground ambulances. Patient care equipment must meet all requirements as specified
in ORS 682.015 to 682.991 and OAR 333-255-007 (2), (3), (4) (5), or (7).
b) If a QRT is used as a first responder, it should be fully equipped to provide the service level set by the
ASA Provider, and meet those personnel, training, and medical supervision requirements which apply
from the Oregon Health Authority.
c) All ASA Providers shall maintain a list of equipment for their units, which will be furnished to the ASA
Committee or Board upon their request.
d) The County shall work with its ASA Committee to standardize the medical equipment and supplies used
on each ASA Provider’s apparatuses.
5.05.19 Vehicles
a) All ambulance must be Type I, II, or III and licensed by the Oregon Health Authority prior to any
emergency medical service. All ambulances must meet or exceed the requirements as set forth in ORS
682.015 to 682.991 and OAR 333-255-0060. A current list of each ASA Provider's ambulances shall be
maintained and furnished to the Administrator, the ASA Committee, or the Board upon request.
b) ASA Providers shall use ambulances which are in good condition and shall meet or exceed either the
current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1917 or Commission on Accreditation of
Ambulance Services (CAAS) General Vehicle Standards, their successors, or previously accepted
standards at the time of the vehicles’ original manufacture. When such standards conflict with State of
Oregon standards, the State standards shall prevail.
c) Each ASA Provider shall repl ace any ambulance in its fleet having over 250,000 miles on its chassis
unless an exception is granted by the County based upon a written request supported by an upgraded
vehicle preventative maintenance program for that vehicle acceptable to the County.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 15 of 29
5.05.20 Training
a) Yamhill County accepts both Oregon’s level specific, state certification education/training requirements
and standards requirements, and standards and continuing education for EMS providers.
b) Each ASA Provider shall meet State-required certific ation levels, to be certified and/or licensed by the
appropriate State agency, to participate in a medical audit process, and to provide special training and
support to personnel in need of specific training.
c) Additional educational/training requirements may be required by the ASA Providers’ Supervising
Physicians, to accommodate such things as protocol changes, in-service, quality improvement, system
enhancements, and individual remediation.
5.05.21 Quality Improvement; Structure; Process;
a) Each ASA Provider shall have a quality assurance and improvement program aimed at monitoring the
provision of care provided by its EMS practitioners. These programs shall include mechanisms to identify
errors or omissions of appropriate care, mandated medical protocols, or necessary documentation of care
provided, by specific practitioners. These programs shall include processes to retrain or educate identified
individuals needing remediation.
b) To ensure the delivery of efficient and effective pre-hospital emergency medical care within available
resources, the Board hereby establishes the Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area (ASA) Committee.
The ASA Committee, originally created by Ordinance No. 723 on February 6, 2003, shall serve as the
advisory body to the Board and the Administrator on all matters concerning emergency medical services
system performance, coordination, and quality improvement.
c) The ASA Committee shall be composed of the following members, appointed by Board Order:
(i) The Administrator or their designee (1);
(ii) One (1) EMS representative from each ASA within Yamhill County (4 total);
(iii) One (1) 9-1-1 Coordinator from each Yamhill County dispatch center (2 total);
(iv) One (1) Administrator or designee from each hospital located within Yamhill County (2 total);
(v) One (1) public member;
(vi) One (1) physician advisor or emergency physician;
(vii) One (1) representative of a fire department or fire district not assigned an ASA within Yamhill
County or any other county; and
(viii) One (1) representative of Yamhill County Emergency Management.
d) The Board shall appoint members of the ASA Committee for staggered terms, which may be renewed. Any
member of the ASA Committee who may have a conflict of interest in any matter must declare such conflict
and refrain from participating in any recommendations made.
e) The ASA Committee functions to review standards, make recommendations for improvement or new
standards to the Board for all matters regarding EMS, and reviews and makes recommendations regarding
the soundness of the ASA Plan. The ASA Committee, through its existence, will offer a local focus for EMS
system issues and encourage local resolution of EMS system problems. The ASA Committee will maintain
a compilation of all Quality Assurance/Improvement policies enacted, as well as all investigations and their
outcomes.
f) The ASA Committee is established to:
(i) Act in an advisory capacity for quality management issues to an ASA Provider at their request.
(ii) Develop and monitor performance standards.
(iii) Evaluate written proposals for amendments to the ASA Plan and forward its recommendations to
the Board.
(iv) Monitor ASA Provider quality assurance programs to include:
1. Compliance with statutes, ordinances, and rules.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 16 of 29
2. Compliance with standards for pre-hospital notification, response, and patient care.
3. Problem resolution and sanctions for non-compliance.
5.05.22 Annual Review of Plan and Providers; Other Business
a) The ASA Committee will annually review and make recommendations regarding the effectiveness and
efficiency of the ASA Plan and pre-hospital emergency medical care, including but not limited to:
(i) Coordination between EMS resources.
(ii) Dispatch procedures and compliance (ambulance and other emergency resources).
(iii) Internal audit and quality assurance processes for ASA Providers. Recommendations from
provider quality assurance within system. Quality assurance findings from other agencies.
(iv) Input from public, ASA Providers, and medical community on performance.
(v) Effective and efficient ASA boundaries.
(vi) Performance criteria and data sources.
(vii) Quarterly updates from ASA Providers.
(viii) Review and revise ASA Plan as necessary.
(ix) Interagency cooperation in disaster and mutual aid planning.
b) The ASA Committee shall also review each ASA Provider annually for compliance with the requirements
of this ASA Plan. Service record standards and documentation shall conform to the licensing and
operational requirements for ambulance services established by the Oregon Health Authority in OAR
Chapter 333.
c) The ASA Committee will be activated at any time a concern is submitted or when deemed appropriate by
the Committee Chair, the Administrator, or three or more ASA Committee members. The ASA Committee
may form subcommittees to deal with specific issues, such as quality assurance, protocol development, and
disaster planning.
5.05.23 Confidentiality
a) The ASA Committee and any subcommittees, as with any governmental body, will be subject to the
Oregon Public Meetings Law (ORS Chapter 192). However, State and federal law require that patient
records be kept confidential. The ASA Committee will comply with Oregon Public Meetings Law, ORS
192.610 through 192.690, but shall prevent the public disclosure of health privacy information or any
other protected information, as required by state or federal law.
5.05.24 Quality Improvement; Problem Resolution
a) The ASA Committee will review concerns about the ASA Plan, service delivery, and system response
issues. Concerns must be directed to the Administrator in writing before they are raised in the ASA
Committee. The Administrator will maintain a record of all correspondence and subsequent findings or
actions.
b) Problems involving protocol deviation by EMTs or dispatchers will first be referred to the respective
ASA Provider representative, Supervising Physician or dispatch supervisor.
c) Problems involving a non-compliant ASA Provider may, at the Administrator’s discretion, be referred
with background information and recommendations to the Board. The Board may seek further
background data and recommendations from the ASA Committee in such instances.
5.05.25 Sanctions; Suspension, Modification, or Revocation of a County ASA
a) In addition to any other remedies provided under this ASA Plan or under State or federal law, the
Administrat
or is authorized upon reasonable cause to investigate whether there is sufficient reason to
suspend, modify, or revoke the franchise of an ASA Provider.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 17 of 29
(i) If, in the judgment of the Administrator, there is sufficient evidence of a violation of the ASA
Plan or applicable local, state, or federal law, or sufficient evidence that an ASA Provider has
materially misrepresented facts or information given in its application for an ASA franchise, and
such conduct warrants suspension, modification, or revocation of an ASA franchise, then the
Administrator shall notify the Board in writing. The Administrator shall send a copy to the ASA
Provider and the ASA Committee.
(ii) No less than ten (10) business days following the issuance of the notice of violation under this
section, the Board may enter its order of revocation, modification, suspension, or non-renewal,
and may thereby revoke, modify, or suspend the ASA franchise, unless prior thereto the ASA
Provider submits a written request for a public hearing or the Board on its own schedules a
public hearing on the matter. Notice of any such hearing will be given to the ASA Provider by
mail. The purpose of the hearing will be for the Board to determine whether good cause exists to
revoke, modify, suspend, or not renew the ASA franchise.
(iii) In lieu of the suspension, modification, or revocation of an ASA franchise, the Board may order
that the violation or misrepresentation be corrected and make the suspension or revocation
contingent upon compliance with the order within the period of time stated therein. Notice of the
Board action shall be provided by mail to the ASA Provider. The notice shall specify the
violation, the action necessary to correct the violation, and the date by which the action must be
taken. The ASA Provider shall notify the Board of the corrective action taken.
(iv) Any decision by the Board to suspend, modify, or revoke an ASA franchise must be by written
order. A copy must be delivered to the ASA Provider by certified and regular mail or by personal
service.
5.05.26 Ordinance Violation; Nuisance
a) Any violation of a provision of this Code shall be punishable as a violation of a County ordinance under
ORS Chapter 153. Such violation shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not to exceed $500. Each
day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate offense.
b) In addition to the penalties provided in this Ordinanc e, violations of any provision of this Ordinance or
the Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area Plan are de clared to be a nuisance and may be regarded as
such in all actions, suits, or proceedings. The Board may initiate injunctive abatement or other appropriate
legal proceedings to temporarily enjoin or abate such ambulance services.
5.05.27 Entity That Shall Administer and Revise the ASA Plan
a) The Administrator, under the supervision of the Board and with the assistance of the ASA Committee, is
responsible for the administration of the ASA Plan. The Administrator has access to records pertaining to
ambulance service operations of any service regula ted by this ASA Plan; these records will be made
available within five working days to the Administr ator by the agency owning or in possession of said
records.
5.05.28 Complaint Review Process
a) Concerns regarding violations of this Ordinance or the Yamhill County Ambulance Service Area (ASA) Plan,
or questions involving pre-hospital care, must be submitted in writing to the Administrator. The Administrator
shall forward the concern to the ASA Committee for review and recommendation. The ASA Committee may
also address and resolve system operation issues. The Ad ministrator shall maintain a written record of all
correspondence, findings, and actions taken.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 18 of 29
b) Members of the public, ASA Providers, the medical commu nity, or any other interested entity may submit
ongoing input or concerns to any member of the ASA Committee or the Board. Such input must be submitted
in writing and presented to the ASA Committee for consideration at a public meeting.
c) The ASA Committee shall hear complaints and make recommendations to the Administrator by majority vote
of members present. Recommendations of the ASA Committee must be approved by the Administrator prior
to action or implementation. Any recommendation of the ASA Committee or  decision of the Administrator
may be appealed to the Board.
d) Citizen and Provider Complaints; Filing of Formal Complaint with the ASA Provider.
(i) A person wishing to file a complaint regarding ambulance services provided under this Ordinance
must first contact the responsible ASA Provider. Upon request, the ASA Provider shall provide a
written complaint form describing the complaint pr ocess. The complaint is not considered filed
until a written complaint is received by the ASA Provider.
(ii) The ASA Provider must acknowle dge the complaint within five (5) business days of receipt. The
acknowledgment will include the date the complaint was received and information about the
complaint process.
(iii) The ASA Provider will complete an informati on discovery process with the complainant. The
ASA Provider will notify the complainant if additional information is needed from the
complainant; if so, it must be furnished within ten (10) calendar days or another mutually agreed
upon time frame, or the complaint may be resolved without this information.
(iv) No later than twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date the complaint was received, the ASA
Provider will produce a response to the complainant along with instructions for filing appeals to
the ASA Committee. If the ASA Provider cannot resolve the issue in no later than twenty-one
(21) calendar days, then the ASA Provider shall notify the complainant in writing as soon as it is
known that a delay will occur, state when a decision will be made, and specify the reason for
delay.
(v) The ASA Provider will send a copy of the complaint and its response to the Administrator.
(vi) If the complainant is satisfied, then Step 1 of the complaint process ends. If the complainant is
dissatisfied, then they may proceed to Step 2.
a) Appeal of Decision to the ASA Committee; Complainants dissatisfied with any determination of an
ASA Provider may appeal to the ASA Committee. The appeal process is set forth below.
(i) A complainant under step 1 or its representativ e must file a written appeal of the ASA Provider’s
determination with the Administrat or within thirty (30) calendar days of the determination. The
appeal must state the date, the complaint, the desired resolution, and the reason the complainant
has objected to the ASA Provider’s determination.
(ii) The Administrator will acknowledge the appeal within five (5) business days of receipt. The
acknowledgment will include the date the appeal was received and information about the
complaint process.
(iii) The Administrator will complete an information discovery and technical assistance period that
includes the Complainant and the ASA Provider and will submit the appeal and all relevant
information to the ASA Committee no later than twenty-one (21) calendar days from the date of
the appeal. The ASA Committee will then issue a written decision no later than forty-five (45)
calendar days from the date of the appeal. If the ASA Committee overturns the ASA Provider’s
decision, then the ASA Committee may require the ASA Provider to submit a corrective action
plan within fourteen (14) calendar days to the Administrator.
(iv) The Administrator will notify the Complainant of the ASA Committee’s determination and what
future steps will be taken, if any, to address the complaint.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 19 of 29
5.05.29 Mutual Aid Agreements Under authority of ORS Chapter 190, each ASA Provider shall execute a
written mutual aid agreement with each other ASA Provider in the County and with each provider assigned
to an adjoining ASA in an adjacent county, to respond with personnel and equipment in cases of need. At
minimum, each mutual aid agreement must include the following elements:
a) Equipment and Personnel. All equipment and personnel used by responding ambulance service
providers must be duly licensed and comply with applicable rules of the Oregon Health Authority.
b) Limited Use. All mutual aid agreements must state that the providers agree to limited use of mutual aid,
and that no provider will rely on mutual aid to respond to more than 5 percent of its monthly, quarterly,
or annual volume.
c) Extreme danger. Responding ambulance service providers must retain the right to refuse to commit
equipment and personnel to a physical location in which extreme danger to life or equipment exists. The
senior officer of the responding agency shall be the sole judge of the extent and imminence of such
danger.
d) Sole discretion. Upon receipt of a request for aid, the responding ambulance service provider must
retain the right to respond in a manner that it deems appropriate. Responses under mutual aid
agreements must be voluntary and discretionary, and any failure to respond must not give rise to any
legal claim by the requesting party, any other party to the agreements, or anyone not a party to the
mutual aid agreement.
e) Chain of Command. When equipment and personnel are furnished pursuant to the mutual aid
agreement, all patient care activities of the responding ambulance service provider must be coordinated
through the incident commander or their designee.
f) Non-waiver of Ambulance Charge. Mutual aid agreements shall not waive, nor be construed to waive,
the right of any ASA Provider to charge the individual receiving services for medical care provided in
the jurisdiction of the other party.
g) Waiver of Claim. Each party to the mutual aid agreement must waive all claims against the other for
compensation for any loss, damage, personal injury, or death occurring as the consequence of the
performance of the mutual aid agreement. Nothing within the mutual aid agreement shall waive the right
of any agency or member of any agency to compensation now permitted or required by law or to such
compensation that may be agreed to by the parties.
h) Withdrawal. Each mutual aid agreement must provide that any party may withdraw from the agreement
by providing at least six months’ written notice to all other parties of its intent to withdraw. Providers
may agree to a longer notice requirement.
5.05.30Contractor Agreements An ASA Provider who utilizes a contractor, other than a Quick Response Team
within its ASA to provide any part of its response commitments, must maintain a written agreement to
outline performance criteria standards for the contractor. The ASA Provider must notify the Administrator
in writing of any contracting ar rangement and the Administrator must approve any contracting
arrangement before it is implemented. The Administrat or is authorized to a pprove a written contract
between an ASA Provider and a public or private pr ovider for emergency ambulance services within a
County ASA only if the Administrator determines all of the following criteria have been satisfied:
a) The ASA Committee has issued a written determination that the public or private provider has satisfied
all elements contained in Section 9(3) of the ASA Ordinance.
b) The contract term may not exceed four years, and may not be renewed without a determination from the
ASA Committee that the public or private provider has met the service requirements of this Ordinance
and the ASA Plan through the date of review.
c) The contract must provide that it may be terminated at
  will by action of the Board, either by its own
motion or upon a recommendation of the ASA Committee or the Administrator.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 20 of 29
d) Once the Administrator approves the contract, the public or private provider may provide emergency
ambulance services in a County ASA only in accordance with the terms of the contract and the
requirements of the ASA Plan.
5.05.31 Disaster Response All ASA Providers shall be actively invol ved in planning for and responding to any
declared disaster within the County. Planning and response shall be in accordance with both a Mass
Casualty Incident Plan and the County Emergency Operations Plan.
a) County Resources Other Than Ambulances When in-county resources are required for the provision of
EMS during a disaster, a request for additional resources may be made through the 9-1-1 center as follows:
(i) Fire resources may be requested through mutual aid, usually by authority of the senior fire
officer or incident commander on site.
(ii) Law enforcement resources may be requested through mutual aid, usually by authority of the
senior law enforcement officer on site.
(iii) Coordination for county resources other than emergency response agencies will be done through
the PSAPs by activating Yamhill County Emergency Management (503) 434-4584 business
number or (503) 434-6500.
a) Out of County Resources When out-of-county resources are required for the provision of EMS during a
disaster, a request for additional resources may be made through the appropriate PSAP as follows:
(i) through the Oregon State Conflagration Act, usually by authority of the Yamhill County Fire
Defense Board Chief or incident commander on site.
(ii) Law enforcement resources may be requested through mutual aid, usually by the authority of the
senior law enforcement officer on site.
(iii) Coordination for out-of-county resources other than emergency response agencies will be done
through the PSAPs by activating Yamhill County Emergency Management.
(iv) Out-of-county resources will be coordinate d through Yamhill County Emergency Management
by coordinating with emergency management centers in adjoining counties:
1. Polk County Emergency Management
2. Clackamas County Emergency Management
3. Tillamook County Emergency Management
4. Lincoln County Emergency Management
5. Washington County Emergency Management
6. Marion County Emergency Management
(v) Resources needed beyond this will be coordinated through the State Emergency Management
division by activating the OERS SYSTEM: 1-800-452-0311.
5.05.32 Mass Casualty Incident Plan The MCIP will provide guidance to  EMS response personnel in the
coordination of response activities relating to mass casualty incidents within the County, consistent with
the Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan. See Appendix L for Mass Casualty Incident Plan.
5.05.33 Creation, Maintenance, and Ad option of the MCIP Plan The County plan is created, in consultation
with its Department of Emergenc y Management, the Fire Defense Board, law enforcement agencies,
public health and neighboring jurisdictions, a mass casualty plan to be used in any mass casualty incident.
The plan will be adopted after review by the Am bulance Ser
 vice Area Co mmittee and reviewed at
minimum every 5 years. Provisions for mass casualty response will be included in all mutual aid
agreements.
5.05.34 MCIP Coordination
a) The highest-ranking officer on scene of the fire agency having jurisdiction of the incident may be the
incident commander in all fire-related, mass casualty, and HAZMAT incidents. For other kinds of incidents,
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 21 of 29
refer to the Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan. The incident commander may delegate authority
for on-scene command and operation but will retain overall responsibility.
b) The incident command system (ICS) will be utilized for overall scene management.
c) The ranking EMT at the scene or the individual appointed by the incident commander will have overall
responsibility for medical care and will work under the direction of the incident commander. Failure to
establish the primary ICS positions of command, medical, triage, treatment, and transport early in the
incident will lead to long-term problems and delays.
d) The incident commander may determine the on-scene command frequency and staging area.
5.05.35 Response Guidelines
a) The Response Unit First on the Scene
(i) Establishes command.
(ii) Assesses nature and severity of incident.
(iii) Advises appropriate 9-1-1 PSAP/s of situation.
(iv) Advises County Emergency Management of incident.
(v) Requests appropriate fire police, and EMS resources services.
(vi) Establish appropriate objectives.
(vii) Establishes medical branch: triage, treatment and transportation groups as soon as practical.
(viii) Establishes fire or rescue division as needed.
b) Command Functions
(i) Establish appropriate and effective incident command organization.
(ii) Establish objectives and priorities.
(iii) Develop / carry -out plan of action.
(iv) Mitigate hazard / stabilize scene.
(v) Prioritize rescue and extrication functions.
(vi) Establish prompt triage and treatment of priorities within resources.
(vii) Arrange rapid transport and documentation of patients.
(viii) Coordinate order of mutual aid res ponse.
5.05.36 Response to Terrorism Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete outline of
terrorism response. When resources are required, a request for additional resources may be made through
the appropriate PSAP.
5.05.37 Personnel and Equipment Resources
a) Non-Transporting EMS Provider
(i) When operating a non-transport EMS response unit in Yamhill County, all personnel must meet
the requirements ORS Chapter 682 and OAR 333-255-0070 (1), (4) or (6).
(ii) Anyone staffing a non-transport EMS response unit must not have consumed alcohol beverages
in the eight hours before working or in any way be impaired by the ingestion of alcohol. Anyone
staffing a non-transport EMS response unit must not be taking any medications or substances
that would impair their ability to care adequately and safely for a patient.
(iii) Each person staffing a non-transport EMS response unit and providing pre-hospital emergency
medical care in the County is required to display their level of certification/licensure and, at a
minimum, their name on the outermost garment of their work uniform and must make reasonable
efforts to dis
play this information under other circumstances. At a minimum, this uniform shall
bear the name of the agency or ASA Provider providing the service. Reasonable exceptions are
made for clothing used to protect the responders from injury or illness (i.e. turnouts, hazardous
materials suits, personal protective garments, etc.)
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 22 of 29
(iv) Each person staffing a non-transport EMS response unit and providing pre-hospital emergency
medical care is required to wear a standardized uniform as determined by the employing agency.
Uniforms shall be clean and free of excessive wear and tear and free of blood and/or bodily
materials. Reasonable exceptions shall be granted to uniforms soiled during the course of
providing service as long as they are cleaned and changed at the first appropriate opportunity.
(v) Each ASA Provider shall have in place a pre-employment and for-cause drug and alcohol
screening program. This program shall be on file with the Administrator. Each ASA Provider
shall have in place a criminal background check program. This program shall be on file with the
Administrator. Upon a reasonable request by the Administrator, a criminal background check
may be required of any person providing direct patient services.
b) Hazardous Materials
(i) Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete outline of hazardous
materials response. When resources are required, a request for additional resources may be made
through the appropriate PSAP.
c) Search and Rescue
(i) Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete listing of search and rescue
response and resources. When resources are required, a request for additional resources may be
made through the appropriate PSAP.
(ii) The majority of search and rescue within Yamhill County is provided by the Yamhill County
Sheriff's Office through the Emergency Services Division. They are on-call and available on a
24-hour, 365-days-a-year basis. In many instances, Search and Rescue will act as first responders
in remote areas that are inaccessible to conventional ambulances. Search and Rescue shall either
transport to the nearest ambulance or, at their discretion, use the services of an air ambulance,
whichever is medically appropriate. Search and Rescue teams have direct radio contact with all
local ambulances, hospitals, and the 9-1-1 Centers. In winter months, Search and Rescue will
respond to remote areas covered with snow and not accessible by the usual ambulance service.
When ALS is needed, Search and Rescue will transport the ambulance crews to the patient.
d) Specialized Rescue
(i) Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete listing of rescue response
and resources. Some of the common required resources are listed below. When resources are
required, a request for additional resources may be made through the appropriate PSAP.
e) Extrication Resources
(i) Each ASA Provider is responsible for assuring that extrication equipment is available within its
ASA. Each ASA Provider is required to keep a current up to date list and provide it annually and
upon request to the County.
(ii) Extrication equipment is available by the following jurisdictions within each Ambulance Service
Area (ASA). Within ASA 1, extrication equipment is available through Dundee Fire at (503)
554-8442 and Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue at 503-649-8577. Within ASA 2, extrication
equipment is available through Amity at 503-835-2311, Carlton at 503-852-6233, Dayton at 503-
864-3558, Lafayette at 503-864-2451, McMinnville at 503-435-5800, Willamina at 503-879-
1709, and Yamhill at 503-662-4653. Within ASA 3, extrication equipment is available through
Sheridan at 503-843-2467. Within ASA 4, extrication equipment is available through Grand
Ronde at 503-879-3473.
5.05.38 Emergency Communications and System Access
a) Telephone; Public Safety Answering Points
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 23 of 29
(i) 9-1-1 is the primary method for accessing EMS in each County ASA. The Yamhill
Communications Agency and Newberg 9-1-1 center are the two primary PSAPs in the County
that provide emergency and non-emergency medical dispatch services.
(ii) In defining the ASAs, every effort was made to recognize the PSAP service boundaries. In areas
outside a PSAP’s designated control region, protocols must be in place to relay the information
to the appropriate dispatching PSAP.
(iii) In many areas, fire district boundaries were also considered in the development of this ASA
Plan. Fire district boundaries usually provide a logical division of response areas by travel time
and are consistent with population centers. These districts help to provide continuity of service
delivery in fire, rescue, and EMS.
b) Yamhill Communications Agency
(i) YCOM provides dispatch services for ASAs # 2-4 which include the majority of Yamhill County
and northern portions of Polk County. Phone number: 503-434-6500
(ii) Newberg Emergency Communications (NEWCOM) 911Newberg 9-1-1 provides dispatch
services for ASA # 1, including the Cities of Newberg and Dundee, as well as the surrounding
rural area.
(iii) All Yamhill County 9-1-1 calls are routed to either YCOM or Newberg PSAPS and dispatched
or relayed from their facilities.
(iv) Each ASA Provider in Yamhill County must be capable of contacting and effectively
communicating with both PSAPs via radio, telephone, and other specified communications
technologies, such as mobile data terminals. The primary method of contacting the PSAPs is by
radio.
(v) Both YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1 are supported, in part, by user fees paid by ASA Providers in
the County. ASA Providers will continue to be charged user fees in accordance with current
PSAP user fee formulas. Phone number: 503-554-7720
c) Washington County Consolidated Communications Agency
(i) WCCCA provides dispatch services for the TVF&R EMS units responding within any County
ASA. Phone Number: 503-629-0111
d) PSAP Accreditation
(i) Newberg 9-1-1 is currently accredited through the Oregon Accreditation Alliance. They must
meet related standards and indicate the ability to maintain standards related to EMS for their
duration of the contract.
(ii) YCOM is currently seeking accreditation through the International Academy of Emergency
Dispatch (IAED), using the Medical Priority Dispatch Systems (MPDS) and the Oregon
Accreditation Alliance. YCOM must continually demonstrate its ability to meet performance and
quality assurance process and standards required by IAED in order to maintain accreditation.
(iii) YCOM implemented ProQA® in December of 2018 and expanded its quality assurance program
to further meet certain IAED requirements. IAED certification site visits were paused due to
COVID and account management transition.
(iv) YCOM’s quality assurance program is supported by their Supervising Physician and Program
Manager, who participate in the Oregon/Washington Priority Dispatch Focus Group and attend
national IAED Navigator® Conferences annually. Staff use the Priority Dispatch ProQA®
Emergency Medical Priority Dispatching System (MPDS) for the processing of all medical calls.
Quality assurance is measured by corresponding Priority Dispatch Advanced Quality Assurance
(AQUA®) standards. Supervisory Staff are Certified EMD-Q’s. For 2021, YCOM’s Agency
Performance Threshold (APT) was 8.82 for all calls.
(v) In addition, EMD performance is measured for every sudden cardiac arrest case based upon the
American Heart Association (AHA) standards. For 2021, agency wide, YCOM staff averaged 77
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 24 of 29
total seconds for the following steps to occur: problem description to cardiac arrest recognition,
which averaged 24 seconds; cardiac arrest recognition to positioning the patient, which averaged
34 seconds; and positioning the patient to the delivery of the first compression, which averaged
19 seconds.
e) Dispatch Procedures
(i) Yamhill County is a mixture of suburban, rural and frontier service areas. EMS services are
provided by a mixture of career and volunteer practitioners who are available 24 hours a day.
(ii) The dispatch system consists of the communication centers at YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1, with
telephone answering and radio dispatch capabilities. The radio system consists of both two-way
radio communications and radio-pager technologies, which provide one-way alerting and voice
transmittal from dispatch and alpha-numerical paging that utilizes commercial telephone paging
technology for one-way alerting and text messages
(iii) The dispatch center obtains from the caller, and relays to the responders, at least the following
information: the location of the incident, the nature of the incident, and any specific instructions
or information that may be pertinent. In addition, the dispatch center will perform caller
interrogation to determine the seriousness of the call and provide EMS unit pre-arrival
instructions for rendering aid to the patient.
(iv) Dispatch will transmit alert tones followed w ith location and nature of incident information
concerning the call. If no response from duty personnel is received within five (5) minutes, then
the dispatch center will re-alert the appropriate agency. If there is no response within three (3)
minutes after the second alert, the next closest responder agency will be dispatched. The third
alert will include the alert tones for the original agency as well as the next closest responder
agency.
(v) The first emergency medical responder to arrive and evaluate the scene and patient will notify
other responding units of the situation. Based on the condition of the patient and the resources
required to render appropriate aid, additional responding units may choose to continue to the
scene or cancel their response.
(vi) EMS personnel shall inform the dispatch center when any of the following occur: when an EMS
unit becomes in-service; when an EMS unit begins responding from a location other than its
station, in which case the unit will state the location from which it is responding; when an EMS
unit is en route to the scene or to the destination, including the type of response; when an EMS
unit arrives on the scene or at the destination; when the appropriate EMS unit reports on-scene
and patient conditions; when any EMS unit at the scene reports what resources are required for
the incident; when an EMS begins transporting the patient(s) to a hospital or other medical
facility, including the number of patients and the name of the facility; when an EMS unit leaves
the scene, if this is different from transport notification; when an EMS unit arrives at the
destination or when it has arrived back at its station or quarters; and when an EMS unit is out of
service with estimated unavailable time.
f) Dispatch Notification Times
(i) Centers are required to answer requests for emergency assistance within 10 seconds, 90% of the
time. Centers are required to dispatch all life-threatening medical calls within 3 minutes and all
other medical calls within 4 minutes 90% of the time. Exclusions as defined by National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1221 or other industry’s best practices may be considered. Data
on notification times shall be provided and reviewed by the ASA Committee every 6 months.
g) Radio System Communications
(i) Radios are the primary link between the dispatch centers and ambulances, as well as other
emergency responders. All ASA Providers will utilize the dispatch services of the ASA PSAPs
and possess radios capable of accessing all common fire channels within Yamhill County and
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 25 of 29
have the ability to communicate seamlessly with the ASA PSAPs and other ASA Providers and
responders. The systems used by each ASA Provider must be capable of effectively receiving
and transmitting voice and/or data messages on specific radio frequencies, designated by the
County, as assigned by the coordinating PSAPs.
(ii) All ambulances will maintain and use multi-channel mobile radios and multi-channel handheld
radios. Radios and other communications equipment used by each ASA Provider must be
compatible with PSAP procedures and meet the technical standards of systems used by YCOM
and Newberg 9-1-1. It is each ASA Provider's responsibility to procure, install and maintain all
technologies, or other equipment, used in the delivery of communications services. Essential
communications equipment, as mutually defined by ASA Providers and PSAPs, will be installed
in all ambulances and supervisory vehicles.
(iii) All radio and telephone commu nications, including pre-arrival instructions and call time
tracking, must be recorded on a mutually accessible media.
(iv) Each ambulance must be provided with cellular telephones for supplemental communications
capabilities as a backup system to radios.
(v) PSAP radio systems must meet the following requirements: (1) be physically restricted to
authorized personnel only; (2) meet National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards and
all State or County standards; (3) maintain and use consoles with the ability to communicate with
EMS providers and hospitals; (4) maintain and use emergency phone lines and primary radio
frequencies that are recorded with a 24-hour, time-taped device capable of play-back to the
desired second, which is equipped with a voice recorder for immediate play-back of distress
calls; (5) store time-tape recordings for no less than 7 months; (6) utilize clear text/plain English
for radio traffic; and (7) equip its center with a back-up power source capable of indefinitely
maintaining all functions of the center in the event the regular power supply is interrupted.
(vi) In 2016, during the transfer of ASA #1 from Newberg Fire District to Tualatin Valley Fire and
Rescue (TVF&R), the primary dispatch center for ASA #1 changed. 9-1-1 calls in ASA #1 are
answered by Newberg-Dundee Communications Center and then transferred to the Washington
County Consolidated Communications Agency (WCCCA) for dispatch services. Because of this
change, the Newberg 9-1-1 Center has transitioned to police dispatch only, routinely transferring
EMD and Fire calls to WCCCA, and law enforcement calls outside the city limits of Newberg
and Dundee, to YCOM.
(vii) YCOM’s dispatch system combines two-way radio communication and radio-pager technology
with digital alpha-numerical notification and delivery. Digital paging is done via CAD interface,
utilizing YCOM’s two paging servers which provide capability of messaging through SMTP
(email) and SMS (text) protocols. YCOM is  a Pulsepoint® Connected organization, and
simultaneously sends secondary notifications to both Pulsepoint® and Active 9-1-1 subscribers.
Station alerting capability exists through SMTP and tone alerting radio interface.
h) EMS Dispatcher Training
(i) An integral part of the EMS component of the PSAPs in the County is the employment of
appropriately trained individuals using approved, standardized support tools for handling EMS
calls. Therefore, all EMS dispatchers are required to successfully complete an Emergency
Medical Dispatch (EMD) training course approved by the State of Oregon Department of Public
Safety Standards and Training (DPSST) and to possess current DPSST EMD certification.
Dispatchers must also possess current and verifiable First Aid/CPR certification.
(ii) In addition: (1) each PSAP is responsible for acquiring and maintaining a State of Oregon
approved EMD system; (2) each PSAP is responsible for ensuring all dispatch employees are
certified as EMD dispatchers through the State of Oregon; (3) each PSAP is responsible for
ensuring all dispatch employees are First Aid/CPR certified; (4) strict adherence to medical
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 26 of 29
dispatch protocol is required, except in the event deviation from protocol is clearly justified due
to special circumstances; (5) compliance with EMD questions and pre-arrival instructions shall
be a routine part of an integrated quality improvement process and shall be reported monthly
with response statistics; and (6) if an automated EMD system is used, a manual back-up system
with current EMD cards must be available in the event of system failure, and all dispatch
employees must be trained and certified in the use of the manual card system.
(iii) The PSAP shall provide comprehensive internal orientation and ongoing training and testing that
encompasses EMD certification, CAD system use, system status management, geography,
medical priority dispatch protocols, first responder notification protocols and procedures, air
medical notification procedures, disaster management policies and procedures, voice radio
system operation (including medical and field communications equipment), paging system
conventions and uses, data radio system operations, radio telephone usage, and emergency
operations center procedures.
(iv) Communications personnel will be encouraged to attend any courses, conferences, or workshops
that directly relate to their work and enhance their skills. The communications dispatcher's goal
is to meet or exceed DOT Emergency Medical Dispatch Course Standards. Communications
personnel must meet all current and future standards adopted by the State or County.
i) Computer Aided Dispatch System
(i) The PSAP utilizes a computer aided dispatch (CAD) system to record dispatch information for
all service requests. The CAD system is capable of tracking, at a minimum, the date, hour,
minutes, and seconds of several time stamps throughout the EMS assignment for each unit
engaged in the call.
(ii) Dispatchers must be trained to complete mutually approved manual procedures for each dispatch
of an ambulance when the computer system fails or becomes inoperable. Following the
resumption of normal service of the CAD system, personnel must retroactively enter the data
recorded on the manual dispatch cards during the outage into the CAD system.
j) Data and Reporting Requirements
(i) The long-term success of an EMS system is predicated upon its ability to both measure and
manage its operations. Therefore, each ASA Provider must maintain and provide detailed
operational, clinical, and administrative data in an electronic format and manner that facilitates
retrospective analysis. Security features preventing or recording unauthorized access or changes
in data must be in place, including full audit trail documentation.
k) Quality Improvement and Medical Control
(i) Each ASA Provider's electronic data system must be capable of capturing and reporting common
data elements used within the EMS system. The PSAP's data system must be capable of
demonstrating adherence to medical dispatch protocols, adherence to medical priority dispatch
questioning, and provision of pre-arrival instructions.
(ii) At least one employee from each ASA Provider will be assigned to participate in the quality
assurance/improvement process utilized by YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1.
l) Management of Personnel
(i) The PSAPs and ASA Providers are responsible for the management and supervision of their
employees. ASA Providers, in conjunction with YCOM, Newberg 9-1-1, and WCCCA
management, will cooperate in the resolution of problems and disputes.
5.05.39 Provider Selection
a) Initial Assignment of ASAs
(i) Unless there has been more than one application made for an ASA franchise, any applicant who
meets the application requirements and who was providing service on the effective date of the
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 27 of 29
ordinance adopting this ASA Plan shall be franchised to continue to provide Ambulance Service
for the ASA in which the applicant was serving.
(ii) If more than one application is made for an ASA franchise within 180 days of the effective date
of the ordinance adopting this ASA Plan, then each application shall be considered by the ASA
Committee for recommendation to the Board.
5.05.40 Reassignment
a) Francise Term and Renewal
(i) An initial Franchise issued under this ASA Plan shall be valid from the date of issuance for ten
years and may be renewed.
(ii) Not more than one hundred eighty (180) days and not less than ninety (90) days prior to the
expiration of a Franchise granted under this ASA Plan, each ASA Provider who desires to renew
a Franchise shall notify the Administrator. Any other Ambulance Service providers duly licensed
in the State of Oregon to provide BLS or ALS ambulance service may also submit applications
during this time frame.
(iii) Review of all applications for renewal or assumption of a Franchise will be conducted in the
same manner as the review of applications for the initial assignment of the ASAs.
b) Transfer of Franchises
(i) An ASA Provider may transfer its Franchise to another entity only upon the Board’s written
approval of a written request to transfer the Franchise and the Board’s approval of an application
submitted by the replacement provider.
(ii) The transfer of a Franchise must occur as follows: (1) the Board must approve the written request
for a transfer at a public meeting; and (2) review of all applications for the transfer of the
Franchise must then be conducted in the same manner as the review of applications for the initial
assignment of the ASAs.
c) Early Discontinuance of Service by ASA Provider
(i) An ASA Provider that intends to discontinue providing EMS and related service before the
expiration of its Franchise must provide the Administrator with at least 180 days’ written notice
prior to discontinuing service. The Administrator shall notify the ASA Committee and then set a
time by which applications must be submitted for the ASA franchise. The ASA Committee shall
develop an interim plan for coverage of the ASA, using other existing ASA Providers and/or
other available public or private resources until the ASA can be reassigned.
d) Temporary Reassignments
(i) The Board may, on its own motion or upon a recommendation of the ASA Committee, issue a
temporary certificate, valid for a stated period not to exceed twelve (12) months, entitling
another current ASA Provider or another public or private Ambulance Service Provider to
provide emergency ambulance service in all or part of the ASA. The Board may renew a
temporary certificate for one additional six (6) month period.
5.05.41 Application for an ASA Any Ambulance Service provider duly licensed in the State of Oregon to provide
BLS or ALS ambulance service may s ubmit an application within 180 days  of the effective date of the
ordinance that adopts this ASA Plan to become a fra nchised provider of services in any County ASA or
ASAs. The application shall be in writi ng and contain the following information:
a) Legal name and address of applicant submitting application.
b) “Doing Business As” (DBA) name of applicant submitting application.
c) Owner(s)’ of the applicant and their residential street address(s).
d) Owner(s)’ phone number and email address(es).
e) Oregon ambulance service license number.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 28 of 29
f) Date of original licensure by the state of Oregon to provide ambulance services, with all renewal dates and a
listing of any lapses in licensure.
g) List of any actions taken against the applicant by the State of Oregon or any county within the state.
h) Type/level of ambulance service proposed to be provided (Medical First Response, BLS or ALS)
i) A list of vehicles to be used in providing emergency ambulance services in the ASA or ASAs, including the
year, make and model, and verification that each vehicle is licensed by the state of Oregon.
j) A list of personnel to be used in providing emergency ambulance service in the ASA or ASAs, the role of
each person, and where applicable each person’s current Emergency Medical Technician level and
certificate number.
k) The ASA or ASAs proposed to be serviced, both in narrative description form and by detailed map
presentation.
l) Reason designation is sought by applicant to provide ambulance services in each referenced ASA.
m) Identification of the current ASA Provider serving each specified ASA.
n) Whether the existing ASA Provider of each specifi ed ASA agrees to relinquish said ASA to the applicant.
o) If an existing ASA Provider has not agreed to relinquish the specified ASA to the applicant, then an
explanation why the service the applicant proposes would improve ambulance services in the specified
ASA.
p) A statement as to whether or not the person would contract for any emergency ambulance services to be
provided.
q) An affirmative statement that the applicant is financially solvent and capable of providing the specified
emergency ambulance services in the specified ASA.
r) Report of any bankruptcy by applicant in the last five years.
s) Submission with the application of audited financial statements for the applicant, if they exist. If not, the last
three years’ internal financial statements.
t) The source of funding the applicant expects to receive in order to provide a sustained operation servicing the
specified ASA.
(i) If funding includes billing for services, then the rates the applicant intends to charge for their
ambulance services.
u) Consistent with the Oregon Tort Claims Act, proof of general liability insurance coverage amounts not less
than the following:
(i) $150,000 to any claimant for any number of claims for damage to or destruction of property,
including consequential damages, arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
(ii) $750,000 for any number of claims for damage to or destruction of property, including
consequential damages, arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
(iii) $1 million to any claimant as general and special damages for all other claims arising out of a
single accident or occurrence.
(iv) $2 million for any number or type of claims, other than claims of damage to or destruction of
property, arising out a single accident or occurrence.
v) The fully completed and signed application must be submitted to the Administrator. Upon receipt of an
application, the application shall be reviewed by the ASA Committee, which shall make a recommendation
to the Board on whether to approve or deny the application. The assignment or reassignment of any ASA
must be made by a written order of the Board.
5.05.42 Notification of Vacating an ASA Any ASA Provider who intends to cease operation or vacate the
provision of services to an ASA, or any portion ther eof, must prove at least six months’ notice to the
County, through the Administrator. The notice shall be in writing and state the
 reason for termination of
ambulance services.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 5.05 Yamhill County Ambulance Service Code Page 29 of 29
5.05.43 Maintenance Level of Service In the event an ASA Provider intends to cease operations and forfeit their
designated ASA, said ASA Provider shall continue services for at least six months, or until the County is
able to identify and assign a replacement Ambulance Service provider.
a) In areas of the County where geographic or other limitations might hinder the adequate provision of
ambulance services, the County may enter intergovernmental agreements with counties, cities or fire
districts in order to provide efficient and effective ambulance service by means of public or private
Ambulance Service Providers.
b) In the event an ASA Provider is replaced or removed as the service provider of a County ASA for any
reason, the ASA Provider will continue to provide services until such time as a new ambulance service
provider can begin services. Each ASA Provider must cooperate fully with the County to ensure that any
reassignment of an ASA does not disrupt ambulance service levels.
Adopted via Ordinance No. 411 on 06/19/1985; eff. 06/19/1985
Repealed by Ordinance No. 646 on 06/11/1998; eff. 07/11/1998
Adopted via Ordinance No. 646 on 06/11/1998; eff. 07/11/1998
Amended by Ordinance No. 744 on 08/19/2004; eff. 08/19/2004
Repealed by Ordinance No. 761 on 02/28/2005; eff. 03/01/2005
Adopted via Ordinance No. 761 on 02/28/2005; eff. 03/01/2005
Repealed by Ordinance No. 924 on 02/16/2023; eff. 05/17/2023
Adopted via Ordinance No. 924 on 02/16/2023; eff. 05/17/2023
Amended by Ordinance No. 927 on 06/22/2023; eff. 06/22/2023
Repealed via Ordinance No. 946 on [05/07/2026]; eff. [MM/DD/YYYY]
Adopted via Ordinance No. 946 on [05/07/2026]; eff. [MM/DD/YYYY]
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
APPENDIX A
Ambulance Service Area Plan
ii
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CERTIFICATION BY GOVERNING BODY OF COUNTY AMBULANCE SERVICE PLAN [OAR 333-260-
0020(3) 1] ................................................................................................................................ 1
OVERVIEW OF COUNTY (DEMOGRAPHIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESCRIPTION) [OAR 333-260-
0020(3) 2] ................................................................................................................................ 2
COUNTY BACKGROUND.......................................................................................................................... 2
HISTORY............................................................................................................................................. 2
GEOGRAPHY............................................................................................................................... ......... 2
ADJACENT COUNTIES ............................................................................................................................. 2
INCORPORATED CITIES........................................................................................................................... 2
DEMOGRAPHICS................................................................................................................................... 3
Historical population ............................................................................................................................................ 3
ECONOMY ............................................................................................................................... ........... 3
EDUCATION ......................................................................................................................................... 3
DEFINITIONS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 3] ......................................................................................... 4
BOUNDARIES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4] ........................................................................................ 8
ASA BOUNDARIES .............................................................................................................................. .. 9
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE (EMS) ACTIVITY WITHIN THE COUNTY ......................................................................... 9
ASA Map(s) with Response Time Zones [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(a)] .............................................. 11
ASA Boundaries Narrative Description [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(b)] ............................................... 15
A. ASA # 1 East ..................................................................................................................................... 15
B. ASA #2 North ................................................................................................................................... 16
C. ASA #3 South Central ........................................................................................................ ............... 18
D. ASA # 4 West ... ................................................................................................................................ 19
Map(s) Depicting “9-1-1,” Fire Districts and Incorporated Cities [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(c)] .......... 20
INCORPORATED CITIES.................................................................................................................................... 20
FIRE DISTRICTS ............................................................................................................................................. 21
FIRE STATIONS & FIRE STATIONS WITH EMS ASSETS .............................................................................................. 22
Alternatives Considered to Reduce Response Times [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(d)] ........................... 23
USE OF DRONES IN EMS ................................................................................................................................. 23
COMMUNITY AEDS ....................................................................................................................................... 24
ALTERNATIVE TO RESPONSE TIME STANDARDS ...................................................................................................... 24
CLINICAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS................................................................................................................. 25
SYSTEM ELEMENTS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5]......................................................................... 25
9-1-1 DISPATCHED CALLS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(a)] ......................................................................... 25
PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT (PSAP) /D ISPATCH CENTERS .............................................................................. 25
PRE-ARRANGED NON-EMERGENCY TRANSFERS AND INTER-FACILITY TRANSFERS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(b)] ... 26
NOTIFICATION AND RESPONSE TIMES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(C)] .......................................................... 26
iii
LEVEL OF CARE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(d)]....................................................................................... 27
PERSONNEL [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(e)] ........................................................................................... 28
MEDICAL SUPERVISION [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(f)] ............................................................................. 28
AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE AND PATIENT CARE EQUIPMENT [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(g)] ......................... 29
VEHICLES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(h)] .............................................................................................. 29
TRAINING [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(i)] .............................................................................................. 30
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)] ........................................................................... 30
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT;S TRUCTURE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)(A)] ..................................................................30
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT; PROCESS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)(B)] ...................................................................... 31
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT; PROBLEM RESOLUTION .................................................................................................. 32
NUISANCE................................................................................................................................................... 33
COORDINATION [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6] .................................................................................... 33
ENTITY THAT SHALL ADMINISTER AND REVISE THE ASA PLAN [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(a)]........................... 33
COMPLAINT REVIEW PROCESS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(b)] ................................................................... 33
MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(c)] ...................................................................... 35
CONTRACTOR AGREEMENTS............................................................................................................................. 36
DISASTER RESPONSE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)] ............................................................................... 37
COUNTY RESOURCES OTHER THAN AMBULANCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(A)] ................................................... 37
OUT-OF-COUNTY RESOURCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(B)] ........................................................................... 37
MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT PLAN (" MCIP") [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(C)] ......................................................... 38
RESPONSE TO TERRORISM [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(D)] ................................................................................ 39
PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT RESOURCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)] .................................................... 39
NON-TRANSPORTING EMS PROVIDER [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(A)] ................................................................. 39
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(B)] .................................................................................. 40
SEARCH AND RESCUE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(C)] ....................................................................................... 40
SPECIALIZED RESCUE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(D)] ....................................................................................... 40
EXTRICATION RESOURCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(E)] ................................................................................. 41
Emergency Communications and System Access [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)] .................................. 42
Telephone; Public Safety Answering Points [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(A)] ................................................. 42
YAMHILL COMMUNICATIONS AGENCY (YCOM) ............................................................................................................ 42
NEWBERG 9-1-1 COMMUNICATIONS CENTER ............................................................................................................... 42
PSAP ACCREDITATION.............................................................................................................................................. 42
DISPATCH PROCEDURES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(B)] .................................................................................... 43
RADIO SYSTEM; COMMUNICATIONS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(C)] ..................................................................... 44
EMS DISPATCHER TRAINING [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(D)] ............................................................................. 45
COMPUTER AIDED DISPATCH SYSTEM ................................................................................................................. 46
DATA AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS............................................................................................................... 46
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT AND MEDICAL CONTROL ................................................................................................. 46
MANAGEMENT OF PERSONNEL......................................................................................................................... 47
PROVIDER SELECTION [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7] ............................................................................. 47
INITIAL ASSIGNMENT OF ASAS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(a)] .................................................................. 47
REASSIGNMENT [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(b)] ...................................................................................... 47
FRANCHISE TERM AND RENEWAL ...................................................................................................................... 47
iv
TRANSFER OF FRANCHISES............................................................................................................................... 47
EARLY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE BY ASA PROVIDER .......................................................................................... 47
APPLICATION FOR AN ASA [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(c)] ........................................................................ 48
NOTIFICATION OF VACATING AN ASA [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(d)] ......................................................... 49
MAINTENANCE OF LEVEL OF SERVICE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(e)]........................................................... 49
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 1
CERTIFICATION BY GOVERNING BODY OF COUNTY AMBULANCE
SERVICE PLAN [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 1]
CERTIFICATION BY GOVERNING BODY OF COUNTY AMBULANCE SERVICE PLAN
The undersigned members of the Yamhill County Board of Commissioners (the "Board")
together with the Chair and Administrator of the Ambulance Service Area Advisory Committee
(the "ASA Committee") hereby certify, pursuant to Oregon Administrative Rule 333-260-0030
(2)(a)-(c), that:
A. Each subject or item contained in the Yamhill County Ambulance Service Plan has been
addressed and considered in the adoption of the plan by the Board upon the
recommendation of the ASA Committee.
B. In the Board's judgment, the ambulance service areas established by Ordinance No. 946
as amended and ratified by the ASA Committee provide for the efficient and effective
provision of ambulance services in Yamhill County.
C. To the extent applicable the Board and ASA Committee have complied with ORS Chapter
682 and existing local ordinances and rules in developing and approving this Plan.
DONE AT MCMINNVILLE, OREGON THIS 7th DAY OF May, 2026.
YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON
ASA ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Chair Chair
C
ommissioner Administrator
Commissioner
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
By:
Yamhill County Counsel
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 2
OVERVIEW OF COUNTY (DEMOGRAPHIC AND GEOGRAPHIC
DESCRIPTION) [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 2]
COUNTY BACKGROUND
Yamhill County is one of 36 counties in the State of Oregon. Yamhill County’s name derives
from the Yamhelas Indians, members of the Native American Kalapuya Tribe. It is located in the
Willamette Valley and is part of the Portland, Oregon, Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA).
HISTORY
The Yamhill District (later becoming county) was established in 1843, five years before the
Oregon Territory was created. It originally spread over 12,000 square miles, which were
eventually partitioned into twelve present counties. Today, Yamhill County consists of 718
square miles. The County seat of government is located in McMinnville.
GEOGRAPHY
The county is composed of a total area of 718 square miles, of which 716 square miles is land
with the remaining 2.5 square miles being water. It is the fifth-smallest county in Oregon by
area. The tallest mountain in the county is Trask Mountain in the northwest corner of the
county.
The transportation network for Yamhill County is dominated by a road system of northeast-to-
southwest and north-to-south paved highways that are part of the state highway
transportation system. Local travel is by secondary and county roads that are significantly
influenced by drainage patterns of rivers and mountains in the county.
ADJACENT COUNTIES
Washington County (north)
Clackamas County (east)
Marion County (southeast)
Polk County (south)
Tillamook (west)
INCORPORATED CITIES
Amity McMinnville (county seat)
Carlton Newberg
Dayton Sheridan
Dundee Willamina
Lafayette Yamhill
DEMOGRAPHICS
Historical population
Census Population Percent
Change
1860 3,245 —
1870 5,012 54.5%
1880 7,945 58.5%
1890 10,692 34.6%
1900 13,420 25.5%
1910 18,285 36.3%
1920 20,529 2.3%
1930 22,036 7.3%
1940 26,336 19.5%
1950 33,484 27.1%
1960 32,478 3.0%
1970 40,213 23.8%
1980 55,332 37.6%
1990 65,551 18.5%
2000 84,992 29.7%
2010 99,193 16.7%
2020 107,722 8.6%
2021 est. 108,239 < 1%
ECONOMY
Yamhill County ranks seventh out of Oregon's thirty-six counties in annual market value of its
agricultural production. This agricultural production includes wheat, barley, horticulture, and
dairy farming, with 13,201 acres in 1997 planted in orchards. One-third of the county is covered
with commercial timber, and the economic mainstay of the western part of the county is
logging and timber products.
Yamhill County is a significant focus of Oregon's wine industry, having the largest area of any
Oregon county planted in vineyards. Six of the state's American Viticultural Areas are wholly or
partly in the county: Chehalem Mountains AVA, Dundee Hills AVA, Eola-Amity Hills AVA,
McMinnville AVA, Ribbon Ridge AVA, and Yamhill-Carlton District AVA. Over 80 wineries and
200 vineyards represent the largest concentration of wine growers and producers in any county
in the state.
EDUCATION
Yamhill County Institutions of Higher Education (IHEs) include Linfield University, George Fox
University, the Chemeketa Community College Yamhill Valley Campus, and the Portland
Community College Newberg Center.
DEFINITIONS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 3]
Oregon Administrative Rules (OARs) set forth by the Oregon Health Authority provide several
standard definitions; Yamhill County has incorporated these below for use in this ASA plan.
Yamhill County has established additional definitions. If any of the following terms appear in
this ASA Plan, they shall be defined as indicated below.
"9-1-1" means a universal telephone number used to request emergency medical assistance.
“Administrative Rules” means the rules relating to emergency medical services adopted by the
Oregon Health Authority.
“Administrator” means the Health and Human Services Director for Yamhill County Health and
Human Services department or their designee.
“Advanced Life Support (ALS)” means out of hospital emergency care which encompasses
procedures, treatments, and techniques within the Advanced EMT (AEMT), EMT Intermediate
(EMT-I), Paramedic, or Registered Nurse scope of practice and are authorized by the EMS
Supervising Physician. The maximum functions that may be assigned to an AEMT, EMT-I and
Paramedic are listed in OAR 847-035-0030.
"Advanced Life Support (ALS) Ambulance" means an ambulance that meets all County and State
requirements of an ALS capable EMS unit defined above.
"Ambulance" means any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle, aircraft, or watercraft that
is regularly provided or offered to be provided for the emergency transportation of persons
who are ill or injured or who have disabilities (ORS 682.025(1)).
"Ambulance Service" means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, governmental
agency or other entity that holds a Division-issued ambulance service license to provide
emergency and non-emergency care and transportation to sick, injured or disabled persons.
Ambulance Services do not include specialty transport teams, ambulances owned or operated
under the control of United States government, vehicles operated solely on facility grounds,
transportation of clients from outside of the county to a health care facility within the county,
or ambulance or vehicles which are passing through without destination in the county.
"Ambulance Service Area (ASA)" means a geographic area, which is served by one ambulance
service provider, and may include all, or a portion of a county, or all or portions of two or more
contiguous counties (OAR 333-260)
"ASA Plan" is a plan that addresses the need for and coordination of ambulance services by
establishing ambulance service areas for the entire county and by meeting the other
requirements of these rules (OAR 333-260).
“ASA Advisory Committee” means the governing body that makes recommendations to the
Board on the County’s ambulance service system and other aspects of the County’s ASA Plan.
The ASA Committee interfaces with the Board through the Administrator.
"ASA Provider" means a licensed ambulance provider designated by the Board as the sole
provider of emergency ambulance service in a Yamhill County ASA.
“Base Fee" means the fee charged for the pick-up of a patient, exclusive of mileage. This fee
shall be all-inclusive and shall not include "flag drop" or any other charges.
“Basic Life Support (BLS)” means out of hospital emergency care which encompasses
procedures, treatments, and techniques within the Emergency Medical Responder (EMR)
and/or Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) scope of practice and are authorized by the
Yamhill County EMS Supervising Physician. The maximum functions that may be assigned to an
EMR or EMT are listed in OAR 847-035-0030.
“Basic Life Support (BLS) Ambulance” means an ambulance, which meets all County and State
requirements and is staffed and equipped to providing service as defined by rule.
“Board” means the Yamhill County Board of County Commissioners.
“County” means Yamhill County, Oregon.
"Division" means the Oregon Health Authority (OAR 333.260).
"Emergency" means those medical or trauma conditions that manifest themselves by
symptoms of sufficient severity that a prudent layperson possessing an average knowledge of
health and medicine would reasonably expect that failure to receive immediate medical
attention would place the health of a person, or the fetus in the case of a pregnant woman, in
serious jeopardy.
"Emergency Medical Dispatch (EMD)" means that system adopted by the County used to
interrogate a caller requesting medical transportation in an effort to determine the severity of
the medical condition.
“Emergency Medical Services (EMS)” means those pre-hospital functions and services which are
required to prepare for and respond to medical emergencies, including transport, treatment,
communications, evaluation, and public education. Inter-facility medical transportation is not
considered EMS and thus does not constitute an EMS response.
“Emergency Medical Technician (EMT)” means a person who is licensed by the Authority as an
Emergency Medical Technician.
“Employee” means any full-time paid or part-time paid person acting within the scope of their
duties and for or on behalf of an ambulance service.
“Franchise” means an exclusive franchise to provide emergency and non-emergency ambulance
service issued by the Board pursuant to this Ordinance.
"Hospital" has the meaning set forth in ORS 442.015(15).
"Inter-Facility Transfer" means any transfer, after initial assessment and stabilization, from and
to a health care facility to include hospital to hospital; clinic to hospital; hospital to
rehabilitation; and hospital to long-term care.
“Incident Command System (ICS)” means a management tool employed during disasters and
emergency responses to organize and coordinate response operations.
“License” means a non-transferable, non-assignable authorization granted to the person,
agency or entity to whom it is issued, authorizing the person, agency or entity whose name
appears thereon to do business in the county.
“Mass Casualty Incident (MCI)" means any incident involving, or potentially involving, multiple
patients as defined by rule.
“Medical Resource Hospital (MRH)” means the medical communications facility which provides
on-line-medical-control for Multnomah and Clackamas counties.
"Mutual Aid” means an agreement between emergency responders to lend assistance across
jurisdictional boundaries.
"Non-Emergency" means those conditions that are not specifically dealt with in the emergency
medical dispatch system adopted by the County. The County may further delineate categories
that may be handled by a non-emergency ambulance provider (e.g. inter-facility transfer).
"Non-Emergency Ambulance Services" means pre-arranged or non-emergency ambulance
transfers and inter-facility ambulance transfers provided by a licensed ambulance service when
the person being transported needs the availability of medical assistance. It does not include
stretcher cars, secure transport, or medical taxis that do not provide medical services.
"Notification Time" means the length of time between the initial receipt of the request for
emergency medical service by either a provider or an emergency dispatch center (9- 1-1), and
the notification of all responding EMS personnel.
“Offline Medical Control ” means performing EMS actions or medication administration under
standing orders or protocols.
“Online Medical Control ” means a medical facility designated by the county as authorized to
provide on-line-medical-control advice and support to Paramedics, EMTs, and first responders.
"Patient” means a person who is ill or injured or who has a disability and who receives
emergency or nonemergency care from an EMS provider.
"Per Mile Charge" means a charge per mile in addition to the base charge.
“Person” means an individual, partnership, company, association, corporation, or any other
legal entity, including any receiver, trustee, assignee, or similar representative.
"Provider" means any public, private, or volunteer entity providing EMS.
“Quick Response Team”, or “QRT” means an EMS unit supplied by a designated provider that
may be capable of BLS or ALS care but is not able to transport a patient.
"Residential Care Facility" means a program within a physical structure, which provides or
coordinates a range of services, available on a 24-hour basis, for support of residential
independence in a residential setting (OAR 411-054-0005).
"Response Time" or “Response Times” mean the length of time between the notification of
providers who transport and the arrival of each provider's EMS unit(s) at the incident scene.
“Supervising Physician" means a physician licensed under ORS 677.100 to 677.228, actively
registered and in good standing with the Oregon Medical Board, who provides direction of
emergency or nonemergency care provided by ASA Providers. Additionally, Supervising
Physician means a physician contracted with or employed by the County to act as the
Supervising Physician and who shall perform those functions as outlined in this chapter and
rule.
“Transport Unit” means an ambulance that is licensed and appropriately equipped and staffed
to transport a patient.
“Wheelchair Car” means a motor vehicle for hire that is constructed, equipped, or regularly
provided for non-emergency transportation of persons in wheelchairs and semi-reclining
wheelchairs (no more than forty-five (45°) reclining) or requiring wheelchair car transportation
for reasons related to health conditions and not requiring an ambulance or transport in a
supine or recumbent position.
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 8
BOUNDARIES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4]
Oregon state regulations require each county to establish an Ambulance Service Area (ASA)
Plan1:
Each county shall develop a plan for the county, or two or more
contiguous counties may develop a plan, relating to the need for
and coordination of ambulance services and establish one or more
ambulance service areas consistent with the plan for the efficient
and effective provision of ambulance services.
The ASA Plan must be approved by both the Board and then by the Oregon Health Authority.
Therefore, it is the responsibility of Yamhill County as the local EMS regulatory agency to assure
that safe and reliable EMS response and ambulance transportation are available to the citizens
and visitors of the county.
It is the intent of the Board to regulate, but not restrict, non-emergency ambulance, inter-
facility ambulance and wheelchair car services within the County.
It is the intent of the Board to regulate the primary emergency transportation agency within the
County.
To ensure the effective and efficient provision of EMS within Yamhill County, the Board
reserves the right, giving consideration to subjects and items required by law, to make
modifications and enhancements to the ASA Plan.
The Yamhill County ASA Plan designates several ambulance service areas (ASA) within the
County. Each ASA is awarded to a single emergency ambulance service provider (ASA Provider)
in the form of a franchise. To assure that the public’s safety and interests continue to be served
by this arrangement, the County actively promotes and monitors Quality Improvement,
program development and system performance.
1 ORS 682.062
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 9
ASA BOUNDARIES
There are four ASAs in Yamhill County, as shown in the following graphic.
Minor changes to ASA boundaries may be made by an order of the Board, following a
recommendation by the ASA Committee to the Administrator.
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE (EMS) ACTIVITY WITHIN THE COUNTY
Analysis of EMS volume within the County has identified the location density and distribution of
activity, as revealed in the following maps.
The temporal dispersal of EMS activity has been charted to provide ambulance service
providers valuable information to assist in staffing and deployment of EMS resources.
EMS Volume Location by Incident;
EMS Volume Heat Map; 2021
ASA Map(s) with Response Time Zones [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(a)]
The primary objective of Response Time zones is to provide the most timely and efficient
response to the residents and visitors of the County in a cost-effective manner (“Response Time
Zone” or “Response Time Zones”). These Response Time Zones are stratified based on factors
such as population density, major routes of travel, topography, and access. Since EMS volume is
strongly correlated to population density, that is the major determinant of Response Time Zone
designation. Historical Response Times from ambulance and EMS resource stations have been
analyzed as well and compared against both population density and EMS call volume activity
distribution.
In addition, Yamhill County has determined that further categorization of Response Times is
appropriate based on the severity of the patient’s condition. Life threatening and significantly
serious illness or injury require a faster response than other, less urgent EMS requests.
Scientific data and industry studies have shown that Response Time is far less important to
patient outcome for less emergent cases than for critical, life endangering conditions. The
County has established two levels of EMS response that overlay the four Response Time Zones.
These are defined as ALS (Advanced Life Support) and BLS (Basic Life Support).
ALS cases should receive responses that include the use of emergency warning devices (EWDs),
such as lights and sirens, and be held to shorter time frames. BLS cases should receive
responses that do not include the use of EWDs and are held to less stringent Response Time
standards.
Annual EMS Volume Distribution by Hour of the Day
EMS VOLUME
Yamhill County is divided into four time zones for response. These zones are classified as:
URBAN, with Response Time standards of 10 and 15 minutes for ALS and BLS, respectively;
SUBURBAN, with Response Time standards of 12 and 17 minutes; RURAL, with Response Time
standards of 35 and 40 minutes; and FRONTIER with a “Best Effort” standard for both ALS and
BLS.
The Urban Response Time Area is defined as the area of Yamhill County with a population
density of 1,001 persons, or more, per square mile. The Suburban Response Time Area is
defined as that area of the County with a population density of between 501 persons per
square mile and 1,000 per square mile. The Rural Response Time Area is composed of those
portions of Yamhill County that are populated to a density of 501 or less persons per square
mile. Lastly, the Frontier Response time Area is classified as those areas with a population
density of less than 501 persons per square mile and that lack roadway access, or that require a
drive time — this is a component of Response Time — that exceeds 30 minutes. The Frontier
Response Time Area was established by mutual consensus of the Yamhill County ASA
Committee and includes those incorporated Cities outside the Urban zone.
There is one exception to these zone designations. That is the town of Yamhill. While Yamhill is
very densely populated, sufficiently so to meet the herein definition of Urban, the actual
aggregate number of people residing there is insufficient to generate any significant EMS
volume. Therefore, this ASA Plan identifies Yamhill as a Rural Response Time Area.
The minimum performance level for each Response Time standard is 90 percent of all
dispatched EMS requests, except for those occurring during extreme weather conditions that
interfere with vehicular travel, hospital-to-hospital transfers, or other similar circumstances
that would prohibit a normal response.
EMS Response
Level
Response Time
Standard
Minimum
Compliance
URBAN
BLS 15 Minutes or less 90%2
ALS 10 Minutes or less 90%
SUBURBAN
BLS 17 Minutes or less 90%
ALS 12 Minutes or less 90%
RURAL
BLS 40 Minutes or less 90%
ALS 35 Minutes or less 90%
FRONTIER
BLS & ALS Best Effort
Complying with the Response Time Zone standards are the primary responsibility of each ASA
Provider.
Response Time Reporting & Accountability
The County has established the following process and procedure for the reporting, assessment,
and accountability of Response Times by designated ASA providers:
2 90% is used because it represents 1 standard deviation.
1) Performance reports. ASA Providers will submit performance reports to the
Administrator on a quarterly basis, and Administrator will distribute these reports to the
ASA Committee. The performance reports will be submitted in a form approved by the
Administrator; at a minimum, the reports must track monthly compliance with each
Response Time standard and must include mutual aid performance data.
2) Review. The ASA Committee will review each ASA provider’s performance report at
quarterly meetings.[1]
3) A
udits. All data submitted for review of performance standard compliance by ASA
Providers may be audited by the Administrator at any time.
4) Compliance Reports. Each ASA Provider will be held accountable to delineated required
performance standards through public compliance reporting.
a. Each ASA Provider’s performance will be reported to the community-at-large
through a readily available public reporting process (dashboard) that identifies
each performance standard and the ASA Provider’s compliance success.
b. This public reporting process (compliance reports and dashboard) will be posted
prominently on the County’s EMS website.
5) Annual report. The Administrator will conduct an annual evaluation of the performance
of the ASA Providers and will report its findings to the Board. This requirement in no
way limits the ability of the Administrator to conduct further evaluations as deemed
necessary.
6) Explanatory Reports. The ASA Committee may require an explanatory report from any
ASA Provider who fails to meet any established performance standard in any reporting
period. Such a report will be submitted to the Administrator, and the Administrator will
distribute this report to the ASA Committee.
7) Action Plan. Failure of an ASA Provider to meet the established performance standards
in three consecutive quarters, or four quarters in any six-quarter period, will require the
ASA Provider to develop an action plan. Such a plan will detail concrete steps, at least
some of which being immediate, the ASA Provider will take to achieve full compliance,
[1] If an ASA provider has contracted part, or all, of its territory for EMS provision to another entity, the ASA
pr
ovider nevertheless will be held responsible for their contracted provider’s performance.
and a timeline for achieving full compliance. This report will be submitted to the
Administrator, and the Administrator will distribute this report to the ASA Committee.
RESPONSE TIME ZONES MAP:
ASA Boundaries Narrative Description [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(b)]
The following four sections describe the boundaries of Ambulance Service Areas adopted by the
Board through Ordinance No. 946 [May 1, 2026]:
A. ASA # 1 East
Assigned to Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue.
Situated in Yamhill County, Oregon, beginning at the point where Yamhill and Clackamas
counties meet at the Northeast corner of Section 13, T3S, R2W, W.M; Thence northwest
following the Yamhill County line approximately 17.7 miles to a point on the north line of
Section 18, T2S, R3W, approximately 750 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road; Thence southerly to
the south line of said Section 18, to a point approximately 2,200 feet west of NE Spring Hill
Road; Thence S10°E generally parallel with NE Spring Hill Road, to the east end of the curve and
the south side of NE Laughlin Road approximately 2,000 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road;
Thence southwesterly along the easterly side of NE Laughlin Road approximately 1,900 feet to
the west line of the Phillip Thompson Donation Land Claim No. 58; Thence S 5°E, approximately
3,300 feet to the northeast corner of U.S. Government Lot 10, near the center of Section 30,
T2S, R3W; Thence west on the north line of said Lot 10, a distance of 942.31 feet to a 10”
diameter stone shown on Survey No. 6805 of Yamhill County Survey Records; Thence S
0°08’51”E a distance of 2,690.83 feet to a 6” diameter stone on the south line of said Section 30
and shown per said Survey No. 6805; Thence S19°E approximately 1.08 miles to a point the
north line of Section 6, T3S, R3W, lying approximately 1,900 feet west of NE North Valley Road;
Thence west approximately 1,130 feet to the North ¼ corner of said Section 6; Thence south on
the center line of said Section 6 a distance of approximately 1.0 mile to the North ¼ corner of
Section 7, T3S, R3W, Thence west approximately 2,640 feet to the northwest corner of said
Section 7; Thence south on the west lines of Section 7 and 18 approximately 1.40 miles to the
northerly line of a tract described in Instrument No. 200529012 (Park Trust to Mahon); Thence
easterly approximately 1.78 miles to the northeasterly corner of the Calvin W. Ish Donation
Land Claim No. 49; Thence southerly on the easterly line of said Ish Claim No. 49 to the
property line between Revana Family Partners, Deed No. 20060169, and Andrew H. Wilder,
Deed No. 20017231; Thence southeasterly along the Revana/Wilder line to the west line of
Section 21, T3S, R3W; Thence South approximately 1.60 miles to the southwest corner of
Section 28, T3S,R3W; Thence east along the south line of Section 28 approximately 3,700 feet
to the west property line of Caroline Crabtree-Osborne; Thence south and east on the Crabtree-
Osborne lines to the east line of Section 33, T3S, R3W; Thence south on the east line of Section
33 approximately 4,630 feet to the southerly side of Archery Summit Road; Thence
southeasterly on the southerly side of Archery Summit Road to Oregon Highway 18 and
continuing on an easterly projection to the Portland & Western Railroad; Thence northeasterly
along the railroad to the south side of Fulquartz Landing Road (CR 79); Thence along Fulquartz
Landing Road to the west side of NE Crawford Road (CR 181); Thence south along the west side
of NE Crawford Road to the southerly side of Riverwood Road (CR80); Thence southeasterly
along the southside of Riverwood Road to northwest corner of County Survey 3598 by J.G
Hefty, dated September 1912; Thence along the said survey lines S78°13’E, approximately 1,989
feet; thence S77°16’E, approximately 489.60 feet; Thence N80°34’E, approximately 905.80 feet
to the Willamette River; Thence Northerly and following the Willamette River downstream to
the north line of Section 6, T4S, R1W and the county line; Thence west and north along the
exterior of T3S, R1W, and the county line to the place of beginning.
B. ASA #2 North
Assigned to the McMinnville Fire District.
Beginning on the northerly Yamhill County line at a point on the north line of Section 18, T2S,
R3W, approximately 750 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road; Thence southerly to the south line of
said Section 18, to a point approximately 2,200 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road; Thence S10°E
generally parallel with NE Spring Hill Road, to the east end of the curve and the south side of NE
Laughlin Road approximately 2,000 feet west of NE Spring Hill Road; Thence southwesterly
along the easterly side of NE Laughlin Road approximately 1,900 feet to the west line of the
Phillip Thompson Donation Land Claim No. 58; Thence S 5°E, approximately 3,300 feet to the
northeast corner of U.S. Government Lot 10, near the center of Section 30, T2S, R3W; Thence
west on the north line of said Lot 10, a distance of 942.31 feet to a 10” diameter stone shown
on Survey No. 6805 of Yamhill County Survey Records; Thence S 0°08’51”E a distance of
2,690.83 feet to a 6” diameter stone on the south line of said Section 30 and shown per said
Survey No. 6805; Thence S19°E approximately 1.08 miles to a point the north line of Section 6,
T3S, R3W, lying approximately 1,900 feet west of NE North Valley Road; Thence west
approximately 1,130 feet to the North ¼ corner of said Section 6; Thence south on the center
line of said Section 6 a distance of approximately 1.0 mile to the North ¼ corner of Section 7,
T3S, R3W, Thence west approximately 2,640 feet to the northwest corner of said Section 7;
Thence south on the west lines of Section 7 and 18 approximately 1.40 miles to the northerly
line of a tract described in Instrument No. 200529012 (Park Trust to Mahon); Thence easterly
approximately 1.78 miles to the northeasterly corner of the Calvin W. Ish Donation Land Claim
No. 49; Thence southerly on the easterly line of said Ish Claim No. 49 to the property line
between Revana Family Partners, Deed No. 20060169, and Andrew H. Wilder, Deed No.
20017231; Thence southeasterly along the Revana/Wilder line to the west line of Section 21,
T3S, R3W; Thence South approximately 1.60 miles to the southwest corner of Section 28,
T3S,R3W; Thence east along the south line of Section 28 approximately 3,700 feet to the west
property line of Caroline Crabtree-Osborne; Thence south and east on the Crabtree-Osborne
lines to the east line of Section 33, T3S, R3W; Thence south on the east line of Section 33
approximately 4,630 feet to the southerly side of Archery Summit Road; Thence southeasterly
on the southerly side of Archery Summit Road to Oregon Highway 18 and continuing on an
easterly projection to the Portland & Western Railroad; Thence northeasterly along the railroad
to the south side of Fulquartz Landing Road (CR 79); Thence along Fulquartz Landing Road to
the west side of NE Crawford Road (CR 181); Thence south along the west side of NE Crawford
Road to the southerly side of Riverwood Road (CR80); Thence southeasterly along the southside
of Riverwood Road to northwest corner of County Survey 3598 by J.G Hefty, dated September
1912; Thence along the said survey lines S78°13’E, approximately 1,989 feet; thence S77°16’E,
approximately 489.60 feet; Thence N80°34’E, approximately 905.80 feet to the Willamette
River; Thence southerly and upstream along the Willamette River and easterly county line to
the point where Yamhill and Polk Counties meet; Thence west along the Yamhill and Polk
County line to the west side of SW Broadmead Road; Thence northeasterly along the west side
of SW Broadmead Road to the south line of Section 25, T5S, R5W; Thence west on the section
lines of Section 25 and 26 to the South Yamhill River; Thence northeasterly and following the
Yamhill River downstream to the Bellevue-Hopewell Highway Bridge; Thence westerly along the
southerly side of Bellevue-Hopewell Highway (OR 153) to the west side of Delashmutt Road (CR
28); Thence northerly along the west side of Delashmutt Road approximately 1,800 feet to the
south line of Section 22, T5S, R5W; Thence north approximately 1.0 miles along the east section
lines of 22 and 15 to the north side of SW Sauter Road; Thence westerly along the north side of
SW Sauter Road through the “S” curve, approximately 4,500 feet to a point near the
Boundy/Christensen property line. Thence north passing through milepost 39 of OR HWY 18
approximately 3,150 feet to the southeast corner of Erratic Rock State Nature Site; Thence west
along the south line of Erratic Rock State Nature Site approximately 1,000 feet to the southwest
corner thereof adjacent with SW Dusty Drive; Thence north along a series of common property
lines, approximately 5,600 feet to the northeast corner of the Momtazi Family LLC property
described in Instrument No. 1997-16865 of the Yamhill County Clerk’s Records; Thence west
Momtazi property approximately 1,320 feet to the east line of Section 9, T5S, R5W; Thence
south along the section line approximately 1,320 feet to the east ¼ corner of Section 9; Thence
west along the centerline of Section 9 approximately 1,850 feet; Thence south approximately
2,640 feet to the southeast corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence west approximately 2,640
feet to the southwest corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence north approximately 2,500 feet
to the southerly corner of the James Colman Donation Land Claim No. 40; Thence N 54°W along
the Colman Donation Claim approximately 990 feet to the east side of SW Muddy Valley Road
(CR 19); Thence northerly up the east side of SW Muddy Valley Road to the bridge across
Muddy Creek in the northwest ¼ of Section 4, T5S, R5W; Thence northwesterly upstream along
Muddy Creek approximately 3.25 miles to the south line of Section 19, T4S, R5W; Thence west
approximately 0.9 Miles to the southeast corner of Section 24, T4S, R6W; Thence north 2 miles
on the section lines to the northeast corner of Section 13, T4S, R6W; Thence west 4 miles on
the section lines to the southwest corner of Section 9 T4S, R6W; Thence north 2 miles to the
southeast corner of Section 32, T3S, R6W; Thence west 1 mile to the west county line; Thence
north 12 miles and east approximately 19.3 miles along the county line to the place of
beginning.
C. ASA #3 South Central
Assigned to the Sheridan Fire District.
Beginning at the intersection of the Yamhill and Polk County line and the west side of SW
Broadmead Road located in Section 2, T6S, R5W; Thence northeasterly along the west side of
SW Broadmead Road to the south line of Section 25, T5S, R5W; Thence west on the section
lines of Section 25 and 26 to the South Yamhill River; Thence northeasterly and following the
Yamhill River downstream to the Bellevue-Hopewell Highway Bridge; Thence westerly along the
southerly side of the Bellevue-Hopewell Highway (OR 153) to the west side of Delashmutt Road
(CR 28); Thence northerly along the west side of Delashmutt Road approximately 1,800 feet to
the south line of Section 22, T5S, R5W; Thence north approximately 1.0 miles along the east
section lines of 22 and 15 to the north side of SW Sauter Road; Thence westerly along the north
side of SW Sauter Road through the “S” curve, approximately 4,500 feet to a point near the
Boundy/Christensen property line. Thence north passing through milepost 39 of OR HWY 18
approximately 3,150 feet to the southeast corner of Erratic Rock State Nature Site; Thence west
along the south line of Erratic Rock State Nature Site approximately 1,000 feet to the southwest
corner thereof adjacent with SW Dusty Drive; Thence north along a series of common property
lines, approximately 5,600 feet to the northeast corner of the Momtazi Family LLC property
described in Instrument No. 1997-16865 of the Yamhill County Clerk’s Records; Thence west
Momtazi property approximately 1,320 feet to the east line of Section 9, T5S, R5W; Thence
south along the section line approximately 1,320 feet to the east ¼ corner of Section 9; Thence
west along the centerline of Section 9 approximately 1,850 feet; Thence south approximately
2,640 feet to the southeast corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence west approximately 2,640
feet to the southwest corner of Dave Waddell property; Thence north approximately 2,500 feet
to the southerly corner of the James Colman Donation Land Claim No. 40; Thence N 54°W along
the Colman Donation Claim approximately 990 feet to the east side of SW Muddy Valley Road
(CR 19); Thence northerly up SW Muddy Valley Road to the bridge across Muddy Creek in the
northwest ¼ of Section 4, T5S, R5W; Thence northwesterly upstream along Muddy Creek
approximately 3.25 miles to the south line of Section 19, T4S, R5W; Thence west approximately
0.9 Miles to the southeast corner of Section 24, T4S, R6W; Thence north 2 miles on the section
lines to the northeast corner of Section 13, T4S, R6W; Thence west 4 miles on the section lines
to the southwest corner of Section 9 T4S, R6W; Thence south 4 miles on the section lines to the
southwest corner of Section 33, T4S, R6W; Thence east on the south line of Section 33
approximately 0.18 miles to the westerly side of Rock Creek Road (CR 415); Thence
southwesterly along the westerly side of Rock Creek Road approximately 4.8 miles to the west
line of Section 21, T5S, R6W; Thence south on the section lines 2.25 miles to the southerly side
of Oregon Highway 18 Business (W. Main Street); Thence southwesterly along the southerly
side of Oregon Hwy 18 approximately 0.9 miles to the east line of Section 6, T6S, R6W; Thence
south on the east line of Section 6 approximately 0.75 miles to the Yamhill and Polk County
Line. Thence east on the County line approximately 9.3 miles to the east side of SW Broadmead
Road and the point of beginning.
D. ASA # 4 West
Assigned to the Grand Ronde Fire Department.
Beginning on the Yamhill and Tillamook County line at the northwest corner of Section 5, T4S,
R6W; Thence east 1 mile to the northeast corner of Section 5, T4S, R6W; Thence south 6 miles
on the section lines to the southwest corner of Section 33, T4S, R6W; Thence east on the south
line of Section 33 approximately 0.18 miles to the westerly side of Rock Creek Road (CR 415);
Thence southwesterly along the westerly side of Rock Creek Road approximately 4.8 miles to
the west line of Section 21, T5S, R6W; Thence south on the section lines 2.25 miles to the
southerly side of Oregon Highway 18 Business (W. Main Street); Thence southwesterly along
the southerly side of Oregon Hwy 18 approximately 0.9 miles to the east line of Section 6, T6S,
R6W; Thence south on the east line of Section 6 approximately 0.75 miles to the Yamhill and
Polk County Line. Thence west, north, east, and north approximately 44.75 miles on the county
line to the point of beginning.
Map(s) Depicting “9-1-1,” Fire Districts and Incorporated Cities [OAR 333-260-
0020(3) 4.(c)]
INCORPORATED CITIES:
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 21
FIRE DISTRICTS
Yamhill County Map
December 19, 2022
02 . 5
1:432,000
51 0 mi
City Limits Dayton Lafayette Sheridan County Carlton FPD Dundee RFPD
Amity Dundee McMinnville Willamina Fire Districts Dayton RFPD Gaston RFPD
048 1 6 k m
Carlton Gaston Newberg Yamhill Amity RFPD Dundee City Lafayette City
Oregon Metro, Bureau of Land Management, State of Oregon, State of
Oregon DOT, State of Oregon GEO, Esri Canada, Esri, HERE, Garmin,
Yamhill County GIS
Yamhill County 2018
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 22
FIRE STATIONS & FIRE STATIONS WITH EMS ASSETS:
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 23
Alternatives Considered to Reduce Response Times [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 4.(d)]
The County has policies and procedures in effect that monitor emergency ambulance Response
Time performance by all ASA Providers. The County expects the ASA Providers to employ
industry best practices, data driven strategies, and sound professional judgment in meeting
established Response Time requirements. The goal is to responsibly, reliably, and safely deliver
Response Times, while also considering certain clinical outcomes in addition to Response Times.
Employing the use of closer, first response units in responding to critical EMS cases, or even
Quick Response Teams (QRT), are mechanisms organizations are encouraged to use to reduce
Response Times to emergencies. These types of EMS units, while not transport capable, can
deliver trained personnel faster to the scene than more regionally located ambulances.
Other methodologies the County expects each ASA Provider to implement to reduce Response
Times and improve patient outcomes include:
1. Develop and use standard operating procedures,
2. Support a trained and qualified work force,
3. Maintain adequate communications equipment,
4. Utilize coordinated communication,
5. Promote information exchanges among public safety response agencies,
6. Coordinate with hospitals to reduce wait times; and
7. Educate the public on the 9-1-1 system and services.
Other ways being considered to reduce the time for lifesaving care to arrive at the patient’s side
include the following:
U
SE OF DRONES IN EMS:
Research from Europe, and a few pilot programs in the United States, have shown that drones
(UAV) may provide an option for many EMS systems to improve response to critical
emergencies and improve patient outcomes. They appear to be most advantageous for rural
and frontier regions where EMS response can easily exceed 20 minutes. When UAVs are
equipped with AEDs (Automatic External Defibrillators) and EpiPens, as an example, and
configured to provide two-way audio communication, they can deliver life-saving modalities to
the patient’s side and permit instruction to direct by-standers on usage.
Some UAV systems have been developed that use remote outside storage structures that
maintain battery charge for the unit and protect it from inclement weather conditions. These
“drone stations” could be located strategically throughout a remote or rural region to enhance
the response capability of the local EMS services.
When equipped with video capabilities, UAVs may also be used to provide situational
awareness for EMS units and communications centers by deployment over particular incidents,
especially when multiple patients are involved or safety conditions at a scene are in question.
While limited by battery life, UAVs still have important applications for EMS systems and
individual units, such as First Responder apparatus.
C
OMMUNITY AEDS
Some medical device manufacturing companies have introduced the concept of community
wide distribution of AEDs, including in personal residences. These devices are connected to a
network that incorporates with the local 911 communications center which allows the devices
to be alerted when a potential cardiac arrest is occurring within a set distance. Individuals of
the lay public can remove the AED from its wall-mounted station and respond to the scene to
render aid. The idea that the public can respond to many out-of-hospital cardiac arrests (OHCA)
with an AED faster than EMS providers is factual in many cases.
This concept could be expanded in the future to include EpiPens and tourniquets. In addition,
some communities have launched registries for AEDs that are located in public buildings and
private companies, maintaining that information with their emergency communications
centers. In these cases, when an OHCA call is received by the 911 center, they are able to locate
the closest AED and advise the caller.
A
LTERNATIVE TO RESPONSE TIME STANDARDS
The County recognizes that it is not just Response Times that lead to a reduction in mortality. In
fact, there is a significant amount of research that indicates, outside of cardiac arrests,
Response Times have a minimal impact on patient outcomes and length of stay time in the
hospital. It is often the case that time to first clinical intervention plays a more significant role in
out of hospital survival rates. Research shows there is no evidence of increased mortality for
priority patients where ALS Response Time exceeded 10:59 minutes
3. Other studies concluded
that, “a paramedic response time within eight minutes was not associated with improved
survival to hospital discharge. Adherence to the eight-minute response time guideline in most
patients who access out-of-hospital emergency services is not supported by these results”4.
Additionally, focusing solely on Response Times can have a negative impact overall on system
performance. First, the community needs to invest significant dollars for the cost of readiness
to assure the ambulance can arrive in the designated time interval. Second, many more
paramedics are needed in the system staffing those ambulances. Third, crews are held to a
Response Time standard that can only be achieved by the constant use of red lights and sirens.
This exposes them to a higher incidence of ambulance-involved motor vehicle collisions and
potentially crewmember injuries along with an increased fatigue factor that has the potential
for clinical errors.
5
3 Pons PT, Haukoos JS, Bludworth W, et al. Paramedic response time: Does it affect patient survival? Acad Emerg
Med. 2005;12(7):594—600
4 Blackwell TH, Kline JA, Willis JJ, et al. Lack of association between prehospital response times and patient
outcomes. Prehosp Emerg Care. 2009; 13(4):444—450
5 Grissinger M. An exhausted workforce increases the risk of errors. P T. 2009 Mar;34(3):120-3
To this end, the County will closely monitor Response Times to ensure they do not exceed the
established benchmarks but will also continually review the efficacy of Response Times in
general. The County will further begin development of clinical performance standards that have
been shown to be related directly to patient outcomes. The County will strive to establish
consensus-accepted clinical performance standards as an important measure of the quality of
the system’s overall performance and as required benchmarks for achievement for ASA
Providers.
C
LINICAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
Over the next five years, the ASA Committee will be considering what clinical data is identified
as important by current in-field medical research for patient care, as well as improved patient
outcomes, and determine how that information may be collected. The ASA Committee has
been charged with reviewing and determining what clinical performance standards should be
used in the Yamhill EMS system in the future.
SYSTEM ELEMENTS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5]
9-1-1 DISPATCHED CALLS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(a)]
PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT (PSAP) /D ISPATCH CENTERS
Yamhill County utilizes The Yamhill Communications Agency (YCOM) and the Newberg-Dundee
Communications Center (NDCC) to provide EMS call answering, processing and dispatching
services. NDCC transfers incoming EMS requests to the Washington County Consolidated
Communications Agency (WCCCA) for the disposition of the case.
Upon request for medical assistance, YCOM or WCCCA will simultaneously dispatch the closest
fire department first responder unit, if applicable, and the appropriate emergency ambulance
service. Actual dispatch processing and performance is closely monitored and tracked
internally by the dispatch centers and externally by the Yamhill County Department of Health.
YCOM uses the International Academies of Emergency Dispatch’s Medical Priority Dispatch
System for triaging and prioritization of EMS calls. WCCCA uses the APCO EMS triaging system.
Both WCCCA and YCOM are aware that the public is quickly adopting new technologies with
their computers and wireless devices and expect to be able to communicate with today’s 911
systems. A new generation of access devices presents a technology challenge to systems
originally designed to interface with only fixed landline 911 calls. With the seemingly constant
advancement of new technologies prevalent in today’s 911 environment, incorporating a high
degree of readiness into the 911 emergency call delivery and receipt system is necessary. The
network and PSAP originally intended to carry and receive voice and a minimal amount of
location data needs to be ready to support substantial amounts of data including text
messaging, pictures, and video available to the calling public.
Key public safety industry organizations recognize that the ongoing evolution of 911 requires
establishing minimum standards for PSAP employee training, operations, technology, and
facilities. These organizations include:
1. International City/County Management Association (ICMA)
2. National Emergency Number Association (NENA)
3. Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials – International (APCO)
4. International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC)
5. Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA)
6. National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
PRE-ARRANGED NON-EMERGENCY TRANSFERS AND INTER-FACILITY TRANSFERS [OAR 333-260-
0020(3) 5.(b)]
All pre-arranged, non-emergency ambulance services and inter-facility ambulance transfers
originating within Yamhill County shall be included within the franchise rights and ambulance
service area boundaries granted to ASA Providers as identified in this ASA Plan. This does not
apply to ambulances and vehicles that are exempt from the ASA Plan, including but not limited
to: specialty transport teams, ambulances owned or operated under the control of the United
States government, vehicles operated solely on facility grounds, transportation of clients from
outside of the County to a health care facility within the County, or ambulance or vehicles
which are passing through without destination in the County. In addition, non-emergency
ambulance services do not include stretcher cars, secure transport or medical taxis that do not
provide medical services.
The assigned ASA Provider has the right to first refuse requests for non-emergency ambulance
services or inter-facility ambulance transfers originating within their assigned ASAs; provided,
however, that an ASA Provider’s right to first refuse such requests does not apply to any person
who is not an assigned ASA Provider and who had an existing written contract prior to July 1,
2009, with a health care provider located in Yamhill County for non-emergency ambulance
services or inter-facility ambulance transfers. In any case, if the assigned ASA Provider refuses a
non-emergency ambulance service or inter-facility ambulance transfer, a person who is not an
assigned ASA Provider may provide the non-emergency ambulance service or inter-facility
transfer.
Non-emergency ambulance services and inter-facility ambulance transfers are excluded from
Response Time reporting requirements but may be subject to future reporting requirements
established by the ASA Committee or the Board. All other rules, requirements and customer
service expectations relating to the provision of emergency ambulance services shall apply to
the provision of non-emergency and inter-facility ambulance transfers.
NOTIFICATION AND RESPONSE TIMES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(C)]
The County relies upon both WCCCA and YCOM to provide the services of notification and
tracking call disposition for all EMS cases in the County. Through their Computer Aided Dispatch
(CAD) systems and radio communications networks, both centers maintain the records needed,
as well as historical performance of all ASA Providers within the County. Response Times for
each ASA Provider are captured within the centers’ data bases and available to the County and
associated organizations.
The County and its ASA Committee regularly review each ASA Provider’s Response Times and
identify areas of concern. Once identified, efforts are made to improve out-of-compliance
performance. The County provides assistance as needed to support plans established to assure
maintenance of adequate response time performance by all ASA Providers.
LEVEL OF CARE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(d)]
Currently, the ASA Providers designated by the County to provide EMS within their individual
ASAs provide predominantly Advanced Life Support. However, on occasion, sufficient ALS
practitioners may not be available or scheduled, in which case the ASA Provider staffs Basic Life
Support ambulances to provide care. Some ASA Providers expect to place standard BLS
ambulance units into service on a regular basis. All ASA Providers have ALS and if the ASA
Provider drops exclusively to a lower level of care (i.e. BLS only) notification will be provided to
the County and other ASA Providers with whom they have mutual aid agreements.
The following table identifies the recommended minimum number of EMS ambulance units,
based on 2020 data, needed in each ASA within the County to meet the 90% response time
standard. ASA Providers are required to meet the 90% response time standard and are allowed
to staff their agency as they see fit in order to meet the 90% standard.
**the above map is a heat map. The colors move from green to red indicating a higher number of ambulances
recommended.
Changes to the recommended minimum number of EMS ambulance units needed (as described
in the table above) should be data driven and recommended by the ASA Committee to the
Board in order to update the ASA Plan. This should be done every 5 years. ASA Providers are
still allowed to staff their system as they see fit to meet the 90% response time standard as
stated above.
PERSONNEL [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(e)]
When operating an ambulance in Yamhill County, all ASA Provider personnel must meet the
requirements of ORS Chapter 682 and OAR 333-255-0070 (1), (4) or (6).
Anyone staffing an ambulance must not have consumed alcohol beverages in the eight hours
before working or in any way be impaired by the ingestion of alcohol. Anyone staffing an
ambulance must not be taking any medications that would impair their ability to care
adequately and safely for a patient.
Each person staffing an ambulance or providing pre-hospital emergency medical care in the
County is required to display their level of certification/licensure and, at a minimum, their first
name on the outermost garment of their work uniform and must make reasonable efforts to
display this information under other circumstances. At a minimum, this uniform shall bear the
name of the agency or ASA Provider providing the service. Reasonable exceptions are made for
clothing used to protect the responders from injury or illness (i.e. turnouts, hazardous materials
suits, personal protective garments, etc.)
Each person staffing an ambulance or providing pre-hospital emergency medical care is
required to wear a standardized uniform as determined by the employing agency. Uniforms
shall be clean and free of excessive wear and tear and free of blood and/or bodily materials.
Reasonable exceptions shall be granted to uniforms soiled during the course of providing
service as long as they are cleaned and changed at the first appropriate opportunity.
Each ASA Provider shall have in place a pre-employment and for-cause drug and alcohol
screening program. This program shall be on file with the Administrator. Each ASA Provider
shall have in place a criminal background check program. This program shall be on file with the
Administrator. Upon a reasonable request by the Administrator, a criminal background check
may be required of any person providing direct patient services.
MEDICAL SUPERVISION [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(f)]
Each ASA Provider utilizing EMTs shall be supervised by a physician licensed under ORS 677,
actively registered and in good standing with the Board of Medical Examiners as a Medical
Doctor (M.D.) or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.). The Board of Medical Examiners must
also approve the physician as a Supervising Physician. Each ASA Provider or ambulance service
will identify a Supervising Physician. The Supervising Physician shall comply with the medical
requirements listed in OAR 847-35-0025.
Willamette Valley Medical Center and Providence Newberg shall be the Yamhill County EMS
System Medical Resource Hospitals. Other hospitals outside of those listed may be used as
required for proper patient care and transport.
AMBULANCE SERVICE LICENSE AND PATIENT CARE EQUIPMENT [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(g)]
All ambulances and ambulance services in Yamhill County must be licensed with the Oregon
Health Authority, EMS Section, and be equipped with equipment and supplies that comply with
the OARs for ALS, ILS and BLS ground ambulances. Patient care equipment must meet all
requirements as specified in ORS 682.015 to 682.991 and OAR 333-255-007 (2), (3), (4) (5), or
(7).
If a QRT is used as a first responder, it should be fully equipped to provide the service level set
by the ASA Provider, and meet those personnel, training, and medical supervision requirements
which apply from the Oregon Health Authority.
All ASA Providers shall maintain a list of equipment for their units, which will be furnished to
the ASA Committee or Board upon their request.
The County is working with its ASA Committee to standardize the medical equipment and
supplies used on each ASA Provider’s apparatuses.
VEHICLES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(h)]
All ambulance must be Type I, II, or III and licensed by the Oregon Health Authority prior to any
emergency medical service. All ambulances must meet or exceed the requirements as set forth
in ORS 682.015 to 682.991 and OAR 333-255-0060. A current list of each ASA Provider's
ambulances shall be maintained and furnished to the Administrator, the ASA Committee, or the
Board upon request.
ASA Providers shall use ambulances which are in good condition and shall meet or exceed
either the current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1917 or Commission on
Accreditation of Ambulance Services (CAAS) General Vehicle Standards, their successors, or
previously accepted standards at the time of the vehicles’ original manufacture. When such
standards conflict with State of Oregon standards, the State standards shall prevail. Each ASA
Provider shall replace any ambulance in its fleet having over 250,000 miles on its chassis unless
an exception is granted by the County based upon a written request supported by an upgraded
vehicle preventative maintenance program for that vehicle acceptable to the County.
TRAINING [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(i)]
Yamhill County accepts both Oregon’s level specific, state certification education/training
requirements and standards requirements, and standards and continuing education for EMS
providers.
Each ASA Provider shall meet State-required certification levels, to be certified and/or licensed
by the appropriate State agency, to participate in a medical audit process, and to provide
special training and support to personnel in need of specific training.
Additional educational/training requirements may be required by the ASA Providers’
Supervising Physicians, to accommodate such things as protocol changes, in-service, quality
improvement, system enhancements, and individual remediation.
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)]
Each ASA Provider shall have a quality assurance and improvement program aimed at
monitoring the provision of care provided by its EMS practitioners. These programs shall
include mechanisms to identify errors or omissions of appropriate care, mandated medical
protocols, or necessary documentation of care provided, by specific practitioners. These
programs shall include processes to retrain or educate identified individuals needing
remediation.
Q
UALITY IMPROVEMENT; STRUCTURE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)(A)]
The Board, in order to ensure the delivery of the most efficient and effective pre-hospital care
possible with the available resources, has directed establishment of an ASA Committee. The
ASA Committee was created by Ordinance No. 723, February 6, 2003, and is composed of the
following positions. Members are appointed to the positions by Board Order:
• Administrator or their designee (1)
• EMS personnel selected from each ASA of Yamhill County (4)
• 9-1-1 Coordinator from each Yamhill County dispatch center (2)
• Administrator or designee from each hospital located within Yamhill County (2)
• Public member (1)
• Physician Advisor/emergency physician (1)
• Fire Department or Fire District representative from an organization that is not
assigned an ASA in Yamhill County or any other county (1)
• Yamhill County emergency management representative (1)
Commissioners and other Yamhill County staff may attend as ex-officio members of the ASA
Committee.
The Board appoints members of the ASA Committee for staggered terms, which may be
renewed.
Any member of the ASA Committee who may have a conflict of interest in any matter must
declare such conflict and refrain from participating in any recommendations made.
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT; PROCESS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)(B)]
The ASA Committee functions to review standards, make recommendations for improvement
or new standards to the Board for all matters regarding EMS, and reviews and makes
recommendations regarding the soundness of the ASA Plan. The ASA Committee, through its
existence, will offer a local focus for EMS system issues and encourage local resolution of EMS
system problems. The ASA Committee will maintain a compilation of all Quality
Assurance/Improvement policies enacted, as well as all investigations and their outcomes.
The ASA Committee is established to:
1. Act in an advisory capacity for quality management issues to an ASA Provider at their
request.
2. Develop and monitor performance standards.
3. Evaluate written proposals for amendments to the ASA Plan and forward its
recommendations to the Board.
4. Monitor ASA Provider quality assurance programs to include:
a. Compliance with statutes, ordinances, and rules.
b. Compliance with standards for pre-hospital notification, response, and patient
care.
c. Problem resolution and sanctions for non-compliance.
A
NNUAL REVIEW OF PLAN AND PROVIDERS
The ASA Committee will annually review and make recommendations regarding the
effectiveness and efficiency of the ASA Plan and pre-hospital emergency medical care, including
but not limited to:
1. Coordination between EMS resources.
2. Dispatch procedures and compliance (ambulance and other emergency resources).
3. Internal audit and quality assurance processes for ASA Providers. Recommendations
from provider quality assurance within system. Quality assurance findings from other
agencies.
4. Input from public, ASA Providers, and medical community on performance.
5. Effective and efficient ASA boundaries.
6. Performance criteria and data sources.
7. Quarterly updates from ASA Providers.
8. Review and revise ASA Plan as necessary.
9. Interagency cooperation in disaster and mutual aid planning.
The ASA Committee will also review each ASA Provider annually for compliance with this ASA
Plan requirements. Service record guidelines are outlined in license requirements for
Ambulance Services established through the State Health Authority (OAR Chapter 333).
OTHER BUSINESS
The ASA Committee will be activated at any time a concern is submitted or when deemed
appropriate by the Committee Chair, the Administrator, or three or more ASA Committee
members. The ASA Committee may form subcommittees to deal with specific issues, such as
quality assurance, protocol development, and disaster planning.
C
ONFIDENTIALITY
The ASA Committee and any subcommittees, as with any governmental body, will be subject to
the Oregon Public Meetings Law (ORS Chapter 192). However, State and federal law require
that patient records be kept confidential. The ASA Committee will comply with Oregon Public
Meetings Law, ORS 192.610 through 192.690, but shall prevent the public disclosure of health
privacy information or any other protected information, as required by state or federal law.
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT;P ROBLEM RESOLUTION
The ASA Committee will review concerns about the ASA Plan, service delivery, and system
response issues. Concerns must be directed to the Administrator in writing before they are
raised in the ASA Committee. The Administrator will maintain a record of all correspondence
and subsequent findings or actions.
Problems involving protocol deviation by EMTs or dispatchers will first be referred to the
respective ASA Provider representative, Supervising Physician or dispatch supervisor.
Problems involving a non-compliant ASA Provider may, at the Administrator’s discretion, be
referred with background information and recommendations to the Board. The Board may seek
further background data and recommendations from the ASA Committee in such instances.
Quality Improvement; Sanctions for Non-Compliant Providers [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 5.(j)(C)]
Sanctions for non-compliant ASA Providers may include the following.
SUSPENSION,M ODIFICATION, OR REVOCATION OF A COUNTY ASA
In addition to any other remedies provided under this ASA Plan or under State or federal law,
the Administrator is authorized upon reasonable cause to investigate whether there is sufficient
reason to suspend, modify, or revoke the franchise of an ASA Provider.
1. If, in the judgment of the Administrator, there is sufficient evidence of a violation of the
ASA Plan or applicable local, state, or federal law, or sufficient evidence that an ASA
Provider has materially misrepresented facts or information given in its application for
an ASA franchise, and such conduct warrants suspension, modification, or revocation of
an ASA franchise, then the Administrator shall notify the Board in writing. The
Administrator shall send a copy to the ASA Provider and the ASA Committee.
2. No less than ten (10) business days following the issuance of the notice of violation
under this section, the Board may enter its order of revocation, modification,
suspension, or non-renewal, and may thereby revoke, modify, or suspend the ASA
franchise, unless prior thereto the ASA Provider submits a written request for a public
hearing or the Board on its own schedules a public hearing on the matter. Notice of any
such hearing will be given to the ASA Provider by mail. The purpose of the hearing will
be for the Board to determine whether good cause exists to revoke, modify, suspend, or
not renew the ASA franchise.
3. In lieu of the suspension, modification, or revocation of an ASA franchise, the Board may
order that the violation or misrepresentation be corrected and make the suspension or
revocation contingent upon compliance with the order within the period of time stated
therein. Notice of the Board action shall be provided by mail to the ASA Provider. The
notice shall specify the violation, the action necessary to correct the violation, and the
date by which the action must be taken. The ASA Provider shall notify the Board of the
corrective action taken.
4. Any decision by the Board to suspend, modify, or revoke an ASA franchise must be by
written order. A copy must be delivered to the ASA Provider by certified and regular
mail or by personal service.
O
RDINANCE VIOLATION
Any violation of a provision of this ASA Plan shall be punishable as a violation of a County
ordinance under ORS Chapter 153. Such violation shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a fine
not to exceed $500. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate offense.
N
UISANCE
In addition to the penalties provided in the ordinance, violations of any of the provisions of this
ASA Plan and associated ordinance(s) is declared to be a nuisance and may be regarded as such
in all actions, suits, or proceedings. The Board may initiate injunctive abatement or other
appropriate legal proceedings to temporarily enjoin or abate such ambulance services.
COORDINATION [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6]
ENTITY THAT SHALL ADMINISTER AND REVISE THE ASA PLAN [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(a)]
The Administrator, under the supervision of the Board and with the assistance of the ASA
Committee, is responsible for the administration of this ASA Plan. The Administrator has access
to records pertaining to ambulance service operations of any service regulated by this ASA Plan;
these records will be made available within five working days to the Administrator by the
agency owning or in possession of said records.
COMPLAINT REVIEW PROCESS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(b)]
Concerns regarding violations of this ASA Plan, or questions involving pre-hospital care
provided, must be submitted in writing to the Administrator. The Administrator will then
forward the concern to the ASA Committee for its review and findings or recommendations.
The ASA Committee may also resolve any problems involving system operations. The
Administrator will maintain a written record of correspondence and subsequent findings or
actions.
The public, ASA Providers, the medical community, or any other entity may provide ongoing
input to any individual on the ASA Committee or members of the Board. This individual, in turn,
may present the complaint, concern, idea or suggestion (in writing) to the full ASA Committee
for consideration.
The ASA Committee will hear complaints, and it shall make recommendations to the
Administrator, by majority vote of those attending the meeting at which the discussion and
recommendation is made. Any recommendations made by the ASA Committee must be
approved by the Administrator prior to action or implementation. Any recommendations by the
ASA Committee or decision by the Administrator may be appealed to the Board.
C
ITIZEN COMPLAINTS /P ROVIDER COMPLAINTS
Step 1. Filing of Formal Complaint with the ASA Provider.
a) A person desiring to make a complaint about ambulance services provided under this
ASA Plan must first contact the ASA Provider. Upon request, the ASA Provider will
provide a complaint form that includes information about the complaint process. The
complaint is not official until the complainant files the written complaint with the ASA
Provider.
b) The ASA Provider must acknowledge the complaint within 5 business days of receipt.
The acknowledgment will include the date the complaint was received and information
about the complaint process.
c) The ASA Provider will complete an information discovery process with the complainant.
The ASA Provider will notify the complainant if additional information is needed from
the complainant; if so, it must be furnished within 10 calendar days or another mutually
agreed upon time frame, or the complaint may be resolved without this information.
d) No later than 21 calendar days from the date the complaint was received, the ASA
Provider will produce a response to the complainant along with instructions for filing
appeals to the ASA Committee. If the ASA Provider cannot resolve the issue in no later
than 21 calendar days, then the ASA Provider shall notify the complainant in writing as
soon as it is known that a delay will occur, state when a decision will be made, and
specify the reason for delay.
e) The ASA Provider will send a copy of the complaint and its response to the
Administrator.
f) If the complainant is satisfied, then Step 1 of the complaint process ends. If the
complainant is dissatisfied, then they may proceed to Step 2.
Step 2. Appeal of Decision to the ASA Committee.
Complainants dissatisfied with any determination of an ASA Provider may appeal to the ASA
Committee. The appeal process is set forth below.
a) A complainant under step 1 or its representative must file a written appeal of the ASA
Provider’s determination with the Administrator within 30 calendar days of the
determination. The appeal must state the date, the complaint, the desired resolution,
and the reason/s the complainant has objected to the ASA Provider’s determination.
b) The Administrator will acknowledge the appeal within 5 business days of receipt. The
acknowledgment will include the date the appeal was received and information about
the complaint process.
c) The Administrator will complete an information discovery and technical assistance
period that includes the Complainant and the ASA Provider, and will submit the appeal
and all relevant information to the ASA Committee no later than 21 calendar days from
the date of the appeal. The ASA Committee will then issue a written decision no later
than 45 calendar days from the date of the appeal. If the ASA Committee overturns the
ASA Provider’s decision, then the ASA Committee may require the ASA Provider to
submit a corrective action plan within 14 calendar days to the Administrator.
d) The Administrator will notify the Complainant of the ASA Committee’s determination
and what future steps will be taken, if any, to address the complaint.
MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(c)]
Under authority of ORS Chapter 190, each ASA Provider shall execute a written mutual aid
agreement with each other ASA Provider in the County and with each provider assigned to an
adjoining ASA in an adjacent county, to respond with personnel and equipment in cases of
need.6 At minimum, each mutual aid agreement must include the following elements:
1. Equipment and Personnel. All equipment and personnel used by responding
ambulance service providers must be duly licensed and comply with applicable rules
of the Oregon Health Authority.
2. Limited Use. All mutual aid agreements must state that the providers agree to limited
use of mutual aid, and that no provider will rely on mutual aid to respond to more
than 5 percent of its monthly, quarterly, or annual volume.
3. Extreme danger. Responding ambulance service providers must retain the right to
refuse to commit equipment and personnel to a physical location in which extreme
danger to life or equipment exists. The senior officer of the responding agency shall be
the sole judge of the extent and imminence of such danger.
4. Sole discretion. Upon receipt of a request for aid, the responding ambulance service
provider must retain the right to respond in a manner that it deems appropriate.
Responses under mutual aid agreements must be voluntary and discretionary, and any
failure to respond must not give rise to any legal claim by the requesting party, any
other party to the agreements, or anyone not a party to the mutual aid agreement.
5. Chain of Command. When equipment and personnel are furnished pursuant to the
mutual aid agreement, all patient care activities of the responding ambulance service
provider must be coordinated through the incident commander or their designee.
6 ASA Providers may utilize the reference document “Mutual Aid Agreements” under Addendum A of this ASA Plan,
for guidance in the development and execution of mutual assistance agreements.
6. Non-waiver of Ambulance Charge. Mutual aid agreements shall not waive, nor be
construed to waive, the right of any ASA Provider to charge the individual receiving
services for medical care provided in the jurisdiction of the other party.
7. Waiver of Claim. Each party to the mutual aid agreement must waive all claims against
the other for compensation for any loss, damage, personal injury, or death occurring
as the consequence of the performance of the mutual aid agreement. Nothing within
the mutual aid agreement shall waive the right of any agency or member of any
agency to compensation now permitted or required by law or to such compensation
that may be agreed to by the parties.
8. Withdrawal. Each mutual aid agreement must provide that any party may withdraw
from the agreement by providing at least six months’ written notice to all other
parties of its intent to withdraw. Providers may agree to a longer notice requirement.
Mutual aid agreements are kept on file with the Yamhill County Fire Defense Board and can be
accessed by any officer on duty at the following numbers:
Fire District Station Contact Number
Amity 503-835-2311
Carlton 503-852-6233
Dayton 503-864-3558
Dundee 503-554-8442
Grand Ronde 503-879-3473
Lafayette 503-864-2451
McMinnville 503-435-5800
Newberg 503-529-1720 Station 20
Sheridan 503-843-2467
Willamina 503-879-1709
Yamhill 503-662-4653
CONTRACTOR AGREEMENTS
An ASA Provider who utilizes a contractor, other than a Quick Response Team within its ASA to
provide any part of its response commitments, must maintain a written agreement to outline
performance criteria standards for the contractor. The ASA Provider must notify the
Administrator in writing of any contracting arrangement and the Administrator must approve
any contracting arrangement before it is implemented.
The Administrator is authorized to approve a written contract between an ASA Provider and a
public or private provider for emergency ambulance services within a County ASA only if the
Administrator determines all of the following criteria have been satisfied:
a. The ASA Committee has issued a written determination that the public or private
provider has satisfied all elements contained in Section 9(3) of the ASA Ordinance.
b. The contract term may not exceed four years, and may not be renewed without a
determination from the ASA Committee that the public or private provider has met
the service requirements of this Ordinance and the ASA Plan through the date of
review.
c. The contract must provide that it may be terminated at will by action of the Board,
either by its own motion or upon a recommendation of the ASA Committee or the
Administrator.
Once the Administrator approves the contract, the public or private provider may provide
emergency ambulance services in a County ASA only in accordance with the terms of the
contract and the requirements of the ASA Plan.
DISASTER RESPONSE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)]
All ASA Providers shall be actively involved in planning for and responding to any declared
disaster within the County. Planning and response shall be in accordance with both a Mass
Casualty Incident Plan and the County Emergency Operations Plan.
C
OUNTY RESOURCES OTHER THAN AMBULANCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(A)]
1. When in-county resources are required for the provision of EMS during a disaster, a
request for additional resources may be made through the 9-1-1 center as follows:
a. Fire resources may be requested through mutual aid, usually by authority of the
senior fire officer or incident commander on site.
b. Law enforcement resources may be requested through mutual aid, usually by
authority of the senior law enforcement officer on site.
c. Coordination for county resources other than emergency response agencies will
be done through the PSAPs by activating Yamhill County Emergency
Management (503) 434-4584 business number or (503) 434-6500.
O
UT-OF-COUNTY RESOURCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(B)]
1. When out-of-county resources are required for the provision of EMS during a disaster, a
request for additional resources may be made through the appropriate PSAP as follows:
a. Additional fire resources may be requested through inter-county mutual aid or
through the Oregon State Conflagration Act, usually by authority of the Yamhill
County Fire Defense Board Chief or incident commander on site.
b. Law enforcement resources may be requested through mutual aid, usually by
the authority of the senior law enforcement officer on site.
c. Coordination for out-of-county resources other than emergency response
agencies will be done through the PSAPs by activating Yamhill County Emergency
Management.
d. Out-of-county resources will be coordinated through Yamhill County Emergency
Management by coordinating with emergency management centers in adjoining
counties:
i. Polk County Emergency Management
ii. Clackamas County Emergency Management
iii. Tillamook County Emergency Management
iv. Lincoln County Emergency Management
v. Washington County Emergency Management
vi. Marion County Emergency Management
e. Resources needed beyond this will be coordinated through the State Emergency
Management division by activating the OERS SYSTEM: 1-800-452-0311.

MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT PLAN (" MCIP") [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(C)]
The MCIP will provide guidance to EMS response personnel in the coordination of response
activities relating to mass casualty incidents within the County, consistent with the Yamhill
County Emergency Operations Plan. See Appendix L for Mass Casualty Incident Plan
CREATION, MAINTENANCE AND ADOPTION OF THE MCIP PLAN
The County plan is created, in consultation with its Department of Emergency Management,
the Fire Defense Board, law enforcement agencies, public health and neighboring jurisdictions,
a mass casualty plan to be used in any mass casualty incident. The plan will be adopted after
review by the Ambulance Service Area Committee and reviewed at minimum every 5 years.
Provisions for mass casualty response will be included in all mutual aid agreements.
MCIP COORDINATION
1. The highest-ranking officer on scene of the fire agency having jurisdiction of the incident
may be the incident commander in all fire-related, mass casualty, and HAZMAT
incidents. For other kinds of incidents, refer to the Yamhill County Emergency
Operations Plan. The incident commander may delegate authority for on-scene
command and operation but will retain overall responsibility.
2. The incident command system (ICS) will be utilized for overall scene management.
3. The ranking EMT at the scene or the individual appointed by the incident commander
will have overall responsibility for medical care and will work under the direction of the
incident commander. Failure to establish the primary ICS positions of command,
medical, triage, treatment, and transport early in the incident will lead to long-term
problems and delays.
4. The incident commander may determine the on-scene command frequency and staging
area.

RESPONSE GUIDELINES
1. Response unit first on the scene:
a) Establishes command
b) Assesses nature and se verity of incident
c) Advises appropriate 9-1-1 PSAP/s of situation
d) Advises County Emergency Management of incident
e) Requests appropriate fire police, and EMS resources services
f) Establish appropriate objectives
g) Establishes medical branch: triage, treatment and transportation groups as
soon as practical.
h) Establishes fire or rescue division as needed.
2. Command functions:
a) Establish appropriate and effective incident command organization.
b) Establish objectives and priorities
c) Develop / carry -out plan of action
d) Mitigate hazard / stabilize scene
e) Prioritize rescue and extrication functions
f) Establish prompt triage and treatment of priorities within resources
g) Arrange rapid transport and documentation of patients
h) Coordinate order of mutual aid response
RESPONSE TO TERRORISM [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(d)(D)]
Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete outline of terrorism
response. When resources are required, a request for additional resources may be made
through the appropriate PSAP.
PERSONNEL AND EQUIPMENT RESOURCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)]
NON-TRANSPORTING EMS PROVIDER [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(A)]
When operating a non-transport EMS response unit in Yamhill County, all personnel must meet
the requirements ORS Chapter 682 and OAR 333-255-0070 (1), (4) or (6).
Anyone staffing a non-transport EMS response unit must not have consumed alcohol beverages
in the eight hours before working or in any way be impaired by the ingestion of alcohol. Anyone
staffing a non-transport EMS response unit must not be taking any medications or substances
that would impair their ability to care adequately and safely for a patient.
Each person staffing a non-transport EMS response unit and providing pre-hospital emergency
medical care in the County is required to display their level of certification/licensure and, at a
minimum, their name on the outermost garment of their work uniform and must make
reasonable efforts to display this information under other circumstances. At a minimum, this
uniform shall bear the name of the agency or ASA Provider providing the service. Reasonable
exceptions are made for clothing used to protect the responders from injury or illness (i.e.
turnouts, hazardous materials suits, personal protective garments, etc.)
Each person staffing a non-transport EMS response unit and providing pre-hospital emergency
medical care is required to wear a standardized uniform as determined by the employing
agency. Uniforms shall be clean and free of excessive wear and tear and free of blood and/or
bodily materials. Reasonable exceptions shall be granted to uniforms soiled during the course
of providing service as long as they are cleaned and changed at the first appropriate
opportunity.
Each ASA Provider shall have in place a pre-employment and for-cause drug and alcohol
screening program. This program shall be on file with the Administrator. Each ASA Provider
shall have in place a criminal background check program. This program shall be on file with the
Administrator. Upon a reasonable request by the Administrator, a criminal background check
may be required of any person providing direct patient services.
H
AZARDOUS MATERIALS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(B)]
Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete outline of hazardous
materials response. When resources are required, a request for additional resources may be
made through the appropriate PSAP.
S
EARCH AND RESCUE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(C)]
Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete listing of search and rescue
response and resources. When resources are required, a request for additional resources may
be made through the appropriate PSAP.
The majority of search and rescue within Yamhill County is provided by the Yamhill County
Sheriff's Office through the Emergency Services Division. They are on-call and available on a 24-
hour, 365-days-a-year basis. In many instances, Search and Rescue will act as first responders in
remote areas that are inaccessible to conventional ambulances. Search and Rescue shall either
transport to the nearest ambulance or, at their discretion, use the services of an air ambulance,
whichever is medically appropriate. Search and Rescue teams have direct radio contact with all
local ambulances, hospitals, and the 9-1-1 Centers. In winter months, Search and Rescue will
respond to remote areas covered with snow and not accessible by the usual ambulance service.
When ALS is needed, Search and Rescue will transport the ambulance crews to the patient. See
Appendix M for Emergency Operating Procedures.
S
PECIALIZED RESCUE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(D)]
Refer to Yamhill County Emergency Operations Plan for a complete listing of rescue response
and resources. Some of the common required resources are listed below. When resources are
required, a request for additional resources may be made through the appropriate PSAP. See
Appendix M for Emergency Operating Procedures.
EXTRICATION RESOURCES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(e)(E)]
Each ASA Provider is responsible for assuring that extrication equipment is available within its
ASA. Each ASA Provider is required to keep a current up to date list and provide it annually and
upon request to the County.
Extrication equipment is available by the following jurisdictions within each ASA:
ASA 1:
Fire District Station Contact Number
Dundee Fire (503) 554-8442
Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue 503-649-8577
ASA 2:
Fire District Station Contact Number
Amity 503-835-2311
Carlton 503-852-6233
Dayton 503-864-3558
Lafayette 503-864-2451
McMinnville 503-435-5800
Willamina 503-879-1709
Yamhill 503-662-4653
ASA 3:
Fire District Station Contact Number

Sheridan 503-843-2467
ASA 4:
Fire District Station Contact Number
Grand Ronde 503-879-3473
Ambulance Service Area Plan; December 2023 42
Emergency Communications and System Access [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)]
Telephone; Public Safety Answering Points [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(A)]
9-1-1 is the primary method for accessing EMS in each County ASA. The Yamhill Communications
Agency and Newberg 9-1-1 center are the two primary PSAPs in the County that provide emergency
and non-emergency medical dispatch services.
In defining the ASAs, every effort was made to recognize the PSAP service boundaries. In areas
outside a PSAP’s designated control region, protocols must be in place to relay the information to the
appropriate dispatching PSAP.
In many areas, fire district boundaries were also considered in the development of this ASA Plan. Fire
district boundaries usually provide a logical division of response areas by travel time and are
consistent with population centers. These districts help to provide continuity of service delivery in
fire, rescue, and EMS.
Y
AMHILL COMMUNICATIONS AGENCY (YCOM)
YCOM provides dispatch services for ASAs # 2-4 which include the majority of Yamhill County and
northern portions of Polk County. Phone number: 503-434-6500
Newberg Emergency Communications (NEWCOM) 911Newberg 9-1-1 provides dispatch services for
ASA # 1, including the Cities of Newberg and Dundee, as well as the surrounding rural area.
All Yamhill County 9-1-1 calls are routed to either YCOM or Newberg PSAPS and dispatched or relayed
from their facilities.
Each ASA Provider in Yamhill County must be capable of contacting and effectively communicating
with both PSAPs via radio, telephone, and other specified communications technologies, such as
mobile data terminals. The primary method of contacting the PSAPs is by radio.
Both YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1 are supported, in part, by user fees paid by ASA Providers in the
County. ASA Providers will continue to be charged user fees in accordance with current PSAP user fee
formulas.
Phone number: 503-554-7720
Washington County Consolidated Communications Agency (WCCCA)
WCCCA provides dispatch services for the TVF&R EMS units responding within any County ASA.
Phone Number: 503-629-0111
PSAP ACCREDITATION
Newberg 9-1-1 is currently accredited through the Oregon Accreditation Alliance. They must meet
related standards and indicate the ability to maintain standards related to EMS for their duration of
the contract.
YCOM is currently seeking accreditation through the International Academy of Emergency Dispatch
(IAED), using the Medical Priority Dispatch Systems (MPDS) and the Oregon Accreditation Alliance.
YCOM must continually demonstrate its ability to meet performance and quality assurance process
and standards required by IAED in order to maintain accreditation.
YCOM implemented ProQA® in December of 2018 and expanded its quality assurance program to
further meet certain IAED requirements. IAED certification site visits were paused due to COVID and
account management transition.
YCOM’s quality assurance program is supported by their Supervising Physician and Program Manager,
who participate in the Oregon/Washington Priority Dispatch Focus Group and attend national IAED
Navigator® Conferences annually. Staff use the Prio rity Dispatch ProQA® Emergency Medical Priority
Dispatching System (MPDS) for the processing of all medical calls. Quality assurance is measured by
corresponding Priority Dispatch Advanced Quality Assurance (AQUA®) standards. Supervisory Staff
are Certified EMD-Q’s. For 2021, YCOM’s Agency Performance Threshold (APT) was 8.82 for all calls.
In addition, EMD performance is measured for every sudden cardiac arrest case, based upon the
American Heart Association (AHA) standards. For 2021, agency wide, YCOM staff averaged 77 total
seconds for the following steps to occur:
1) Problem description to cardiac arrest recognition (24 seconds on average)
2) Cardiac arrest recognition to position patient (34 seconds on average)
3) Position patient to first compression delivered (19 seconds on average).
D
ISPATCH PROCEDURES [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(B)]
Yamhill County is a mixture of suburban, rural and frontier service areas. EMS services are provided
by a mixture of career and volunteer practitioners who are available 24 hours a day.
The dispatch system consists of the communication centers at YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1, with
telephone answering and radio dispatch capabilities. The radio system consists of both two-way radio
communications and radio-pager technologies, which provide one-way alerting and voice transmittal
from dispatch and alpha-numerical paging that utilizes commercial telephone paging technology for
one-way alerting and text messages.
The dispatch center obtains from the caller, and relays to the responders, at least the following
information:
1) Location of incident.
2) Nature of incident.
3) Any specific instructions or information that may be pertinent.
In addition, the dispatch center will perform caller interrogation to determine the seriousness of the
call and provide EMS unit pre-arrival instructions for rendering aid to the patient.
Dispatch will transmit alert tones followed with location and nature of incident information
concerning the call. If no response from duty personnel is received within five (5) minutes, then the
dispatch center will re-alert the appropriate agency. If there is no response within three (3) minutes
after the second alert, the next closest responder agency will be dispatched. The third alert will
include the alert tones for the original agency as well as the next closest responder agency.
The first emergency medical responder to arrive and evaluate the scene and patient will notify other
responding units of the situation. Based on the condition of the patient and the resources required to
render appropriate aid, additional responding units may choose to continue to the scene or cancel
their response.
EMS personnel shall inform the dispatch center when any of the following occur:
1) When an EMS unit becomes in-service.
2) When an EMS unit begins responding from a location other than its station. In these
situations, the unit will state the location from which it is responding.
3) When an EMS unit is en route to the scene or to the destination, including the type of
response.
4) When an EMS unit arrives on the scene or at the destination.
5) The appropriate EMS unit should report on-scene and patient conditions.
6) Any EMS unit at the scene should report what resources are required for the incident.
7) When an EMS begins transporting the patient(s) to a hospital or other medical facility, the
number of patients and the name of the facility.
8) When an EMS unit leaves the scene, if this is different from #7.
9) When an EMS unit arrives at the destination or when it has arrived back at its
station/quarters.
10) When an EMS unit is out of service with estimated unavailable time.
Dispatch Notification Times:
Centers are required to answer requests for emergency assistance within 10 seconds, 90% of the
time. Centers are required to dispatch all life-threatening medical calls within 3 minutes and all
other medical calls within 4 minutes 90% of the time. Exclusions as defined by National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1221 or other industry best practices may be considered. Data on
notification times shall be provided and reviewed by the ASA Committee every 6 months.
R
ADIO SYSTEM; COMMUNICATIONS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(C)]
Radios are the primary link between the dispatch centers and ambulances, as well as other
emergency responders. All ASA Providers will utilize the dispatch services of the ASA PSAPs and
possess radios capable of accessing all common fire channels within Yamhill County and have the
ability to communicate seamlessly with the ASA PSAPs and other ASA Providers and responders. The
systems used by each ASA Provider must be capable of effectively receiving and transmitting voice
and/or data messages on specific radio frequencies, designated by the County, as assigned by the
coordinating PSAPs.
All ambulances will maintain and use multi-channel mobile radios and multi-channel handheld radios.
Radios and other communications equipment used by each ASA Provider must be compatible with
PSAP procedures and meet the technical standards of systems used by YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1. It is
each ASA Provider's responsibility to procure, install and maintain all technologies, or other
equipment, used in the delivery of communications services. Essential communications equipment,
as mutually defined by ASA Providers and PSAPs, will be installed in all ambulances and supervisory
vehicles.
All radio and telephone communications, including pre-arrival instructions and call time tracking,
must be recorded on a mutually accessible media.
Each ambulance must be provided with cellular telephones for supplemental communications
capabilities as a backup system to radios.
PSAP radio systems must meet the following requirements:
1) Be physically restricted to authorized personnel only.
2) Meet National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards and all State or County
standards.
3) Maintain and use consoles with the ability to communicate with EMS providers and hospitals.
4) Maintain and use emergency phone lines and primary radio frequencies that are recorded
with a 24-hour, time-taped device capable of play-back to the desired second, which is
equipped with a voice recorder for immediate play-back of distress calls.
5) Store time-tape recordings for no less than 7 months.
6) Utilize clear text/plain English for radio traffic.
7) Equip its center with a back-up power source capable of indefinitely maintaining all functions
of the center in the event the regular power supply is interrupted.
In 2016, during the transfer of ASA #1 from Newberg Fire District to Tualatin Valley Fire and Rescue
(TVF&R), the primary dispatch center for ASA #1 changed. 9-1-1 calls in ASA #1 are answered by
Newberg-Dundee Communications Center and then transferred to the Washington County
Consolidated Communications Agency (WCCCA) for dispatch services. Because of this change, the
Newberg 9-1-1 Center has transitioned to police dispatch only, routinely transferring EMD and Fire
calls to WCCCA, and law enforcement calls outside the city limits of Newberg and Dundee, to YCOM.
YCOM’s dispatch system combines two-way radio communication and radio-pager technology with
digital alpha-numerical notification and delivery. Digital paging is done via CAD interface, utilizing
YCOM’s two paging servers which provide capability of messaging through SMTP (email) and SMS
(text) protocols. YCOM is a Pulsepoint® Connected organization, and simultaneously sends secondary
notifications to both Pulsepoint® and Active 9-1-1 subscribers. Station alerting capability exists
through SMTP and tone alerting radio interface.
EMS D
ISPATCHER TRAINING [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 6.(f)(D)]
An integral part of the EMS component of the PSAPs in the County is the employment of
appropriately trained individuals using approved, standardized support tools for handling EMS calls.
Therefore, all EMS dispatchers are required to successfully complete an Emergency Medical Dispatch
(EMD) training course approved by the State of Oregon Department of Public Safety Standards and
Training (DPSST) and to possess current DPSST EMD certification. Dispatchers must also possess
current and verifiable First Aid/CPR certification.
In addition:
1) Each PSAP is responsible for acquiring and maintaining a State of Oregon approved EMD
system.
2) Each PSAP is responsible for ensuring all dispatch employees are certified as EMD
dispatchers through the State of Oregon.
3) Each PSAP is responsible for ensuring all dispatch employees are First Aid/CPR certified.
4) Strict adherence to medical dispatch protocol is required, except in the event deviation
from protocol is clearly justified due to special circumstances.
5) Compliance with EMD questions and pre-arrival instructions shall be a routine part of an
integrated quality improvement process and shall be reported monthly with response
statistics.
6) If an automated EMD system is used, a manual back-up system with current EMD cards
must be available in the event of system failure. All dispatch employees must be trained
and certified in the use of the manual card system.
The PSAP shall provide comprehensive internal orientation and ongoing training and testing that
encompasses EMD certification, CAD system use, system status management, geography, medical
priority dispatch protocols, first responder notification protocols and procedures, air medical
notification procedures, disaster management policies and procedures, voice radio system operation
(including medical and field communications equipment), paging system conventions and uses, data
radio system operations, radio telephone usage, and emergency operations center procedures.
Communications personnel will be encouraged to attend any courses, conferences, or workshops
that directly relate to their work and enhance their skills. The communications dispatcher's goal is to
meet or exceed DOT Emergency Medical Dispatch Course Standards. Communications personnel
must meet all current and future standards adopted by the State or County.
C
OMPUTER AIDED DISPATCH SYSTEM
The PSAP utilizes a computer aided dispatch (CAD) system to record dispatch information for all
service requests. The CAD system is capable of tracking, at a minimum, the date, hour, minutes, and
seconds of several time stamps throughout the EMS assignment for each unit engaged in the call.
Dispatchers must be trained to complete mutually approved manual procedures for each dispatch of
an ambulance when the computer system fails or becomes inoperable. Following the resumption of
normal service of the CAD system, personnel must retroactively enter the data recorded on the
manual dispatch cards during the outage into the CAD system.
D
ATA AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
The long-term success of an EMS system is predicated upon its ability to both measure and manage
its operations. Therefore, each ASA Provider must maintain and provide detailed operational, clinical,
and administrative data in an electronic format and manner that facilitates retrospective analysis.
Security features preventing or recording unauthorized access or changes in data must be in place,
including full audit trail documentation.
Q
UALITY IMPROVEMENT AND MEDICAL CONTROL
Each ASA Provider's electronic data system must be capable of capturing and reporting common data
elements used within the EMS system. The PSAP's data system must be capable of demonstrating
adherence to medical dispatch protocols, adherence to medical priority dispatch questioning, and
provision of pre-arrival instructions.
At least one employee from each ASA Provider will be assigned to participate in the quality
assurance/improvement process utilized by YCOM and Newberg 9-1-1.
MANAGEMENT OF PERSONNEL
The PSAPs and ASA Providers are responsible for the management and supervision of their
employees. ASA Providers, in conjunction with YCOM, Newberg 9-1-1, and WCCCA management, will
cooperate in the resolution of problems and disputes.
PROVIDER SELECTION [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7]
INITIAL ASSIGNMENT OF ASAS [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(a)]
The initial assignment of ASAs will occur as follows:
1. Unless there has been more than one application made for an ASA franchise, any applicant
who meets the application requirements and who was providing service on the effective date
of the ordinance adopting this ASA Plan shall be franchised to continue to provide Ambulance
Service for the ASA in which the applicant was serving.
2. If more than one application is made for an ASA franchise within 180 days of the effective
date of the ordinance adopting this ASA Plan, then each application shall be considered by the
ASA Committee for recommendation to the Board.
REASSIGNMENT [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(b)]
FRANCHISE TERM AND RENEWAL
An initial Franchise issued under this ASA Plan shall be valid from the date of issuance for ten years
and may be renewed.
Not more than one hundred eighty (180) days and not less than ninety (90) days prior to the
expiration of a Franchise granted under this ASA Plan, each ASA Provider who desires to renew a
Franchise shall notify the Administrator. Any other Ambulance Service providers duly licensed in
the State of Oregon to provide BLS or ALS ambulance service may also submit applications during this
time frame.
Review of all applications for renewal or assumption of a Franchise will be conducted in the
same manner as the review of applications for the initial assignment of the ASAs.
TRANSFER OF FRANCHISES
An ASA Provider may transfer its Franchise to another entity only upon the Board’s written approval
of a written request to transfer the Franchise and the Board’s approval of an application submitted by
the replacement provider. The transfer of a Franchise must occur as follows:
1. The Board must approve the written request for a transfer at a public meeting.
2.
Review of all applications for the transfer of the Franchise must then be conducted in the
sa
me manner as the review of applications for the initial assignment of the ASAs.
EARLY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE BY ASA PROVIDER
An ASA Provider that intends to discontinue providing EMS and related service before the expiration
of its Franchise must provide the Administrator with at least 180 days’ written notice prior to
discontinuing service. The Administrator shall notify the ASA Committee and then set a time by which
applications must be submitted for the ASA franchise. The ASA Committee shall develop an interim
plan for coverage of the ASA, using other existing ASA Providers and/or other available public or
private resources until the ASA can be reassigned.
T
EMPORARY REASSIGNMENTS
The Board may, on its own motion or upon a recommendation of the ASA Committee, issue a
temporary certificate, valid for a stated period not to exceed twelve (12) months, entitling another
current ASA Provider or another public or private Ambulance Service Provider to provide emergency
ambulance service in all or part of the ASA. The Board may renew a temporary certificate for one
additional six (6) month period.
APPLICATION FOR AN ASA [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(c)]
Any Ambulance Service provider duly licensed in the State of Oregon to provide BLS or ALS
ambulance service may submit an application within 180 days of the effective date of the ordinance
that adopts this ASA Plan to become a franchised provider of services in any County ASA or ASAs. The
application shall be in writing and contain the following information:
1) Legal name and address of applicant submitting application.
2) “Doing Business As” (DBA) name of applicant submitting application.
3) Owner(s)’ of the applicant and their residential street address(s).
4) Owner(s)’ phone number and email address(es).
5) Oregon ambulance service license number.
6) Date of original licensure by the state of Oregon to provide ambulance services, with
all renewal dates and a listing of any lapses in licensure.
7) List of any actions taken against the applicant by the State of Oregon or any county
within the state.
8) Type/level of ambulance service proposed to be provided (Medical First Response, BLS
or ALS)
9) A list of vehicles to be used in providing emergency ambulance services in the ASA or
ASAs, including the year, make and model, and verification that each vehicle is licensed
by the state of Oregon.
10) A list of personnel to be used in providing emergency ambulance service in the ASA or
ASAs, the role of each person, and where applicable each person’s current Emergency
Medical Technician level and certificate number.
11) The ASA or ASAs proposed to be serviced, both in narrative description form and by
detailed map presentation.
12) Reason designation is sought by applicant to provide ambulance services in each
referenced ASA.
13) Identification of the current ASA Provider serving each specified ASA.
14) Whether the existing ASA Provider of each specified ASA agrees to relinquish said ASA
to the applicant.
15) If an existing ASA Provider has not agreed to relinquish the specified ASA to the
applicant, then an explanation why the service the applicant proposes would improve
ambulance services in the specified ASA.
16) A statement as to whether or not the person would contract for any emergency
ambulance services to be provided.
17) An affirmative statement that the applicant is financially solvent and capable to
provide the specified emergency ambulance services in the specified ASA.
18) Report of any bankruptcy by applicant in the last five years.
19) Submission with the application of audited financial statements for the applicant, if
they exist. If not, the last three years’ internal financial statements.
20) The source of funding the applicant expects to receive in order to provide a sustained
operation servicing the specified ASA.
i. If funding includes billing for services, then the rates the applicant intends to
charge for their ambulance services.
21) Consistent with the Oregon Tort Claims Act, proof of general liability insurance
coverage amounts not less than the following:
i. $150,000 to any claimant for any number of claims for damage to or
destruction of property, including consequential damages, arising out of a
single accident or occurrence.
ii. $750,000 for any number of claims for damage to or destruction of property,
including consequential damages, arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
iii. $1 million to any claimant as general and special damages for all other claims
arising out of a single accident or occurrence.
iv. $2 million for any number or type of claims, other than claims of damage to or
destruction of property, arising out a single accident or occurrence.
The fully completed and signed application must be submitted to the Administrator. Upon receipt of
an application, the application shall be reviewed by the ASA Committee, which shall make a
recommendation to the Board on whether to approve or deny the application. The assignment or
reassignment of any ASA must be made by a written order of the Board.
NOTIFICATION OF VACATING AN ASA [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(d)]
Any ASA Provider who intends to cease operation or vacate the provision of services to an ASA, or
any portion thereof, must prove at least six months’ notice to the County, through the Administrator.
The notice shall be in writing and state the reason for termination of ambulance services.
MAINTENANCE OF LEVEL OF SERVICE [OAR 333-260-0020(3) 7.(e)]
In the event an ASA Provider intends to cease operations and forfeit their designated ASA, said ASA
Provider shall continue services for at least six months, or until the County is able to identify and
assign a replacement Ambulance Service provider.
1. In areas of the County where geographic or other limitations might hinder the adequate
provision of ambulance services, the County may enter intergovernmental agreements with
counties, cities or fire districts in order to provide efficient and effective ambulance service by
means of public or private Ambulance Service Providers.
In the event an ASA Provider is replaced or removed as the service provider of a County ASA for any
reason, the ASA Provider will continue to provide services until such time as a new ambulance service
provider can begin services. Each ASA Provider must cooperate fully with the County to ensure that
any reassignment of an ASA does not disrupt ambulance service levels.
APPENDICIES
APPENDIX B
APPENDIX C
APPENDIX D
APPENDIX E
Annual EMS Volume Distribution by Hour of the Day
APPENDIX F
APPENDIX G
APPENDIX H
APPENDIX I
Yamhill CountyM ap
APPENDIX J
APPENDIX K
WHEN RESPONDING ON A
MASS – CASUALTY
INCIDENT
- Res
pond according to response assignment for MCI zone.
-
Enroute, contact Medical Coordination Center if operational.
- Enro
ute, Review MCI Field Guide.
- If you are on a move - up, advise Medical Coordination Center
on arrival.
IF RESPONDING TO SCENE
-
Proceed to Staging Area specified by Operations.
- On a
rrival, drop personnel and equipment as needed.
- Dr
iver and vehicle stay in Staging Area.
NEVER SEPARATE DRIVER,
VEHICLE, AND STRETCHER
APPENDIX L
April, 2013
Table of Contents - 1
YYaammhhiillll  CCoouunnttyy
Mass - Casualty Incident Plan
Table of Contents
Sect
ions:
1. Definitions
2. General Guidelines
3. Command Structure
4. Resource Lists
5. Field Guides
6. Zone Response Assignments
7. Zone Maps
8. Post - Incident Analysis
Section 1
DEFINITIONS
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan
April, 2013
Section 1 – Definitions
Page - 1
COMMAND POST (CP): An ad hoc group which is formed specifically to
mitigate an incident.  The Command Post may vary in size and type depending
on the size and type of incident.  The Command Post’s function is to provide a
central stationary location to assist the IC in incident command and control.  The
CP is the field office for management functions, such as logistics, planning, and
finance.  It will be composed of designated officials of various agencies.  An
example of these agencies would be Law Enforcement, Fire, EMS, and Public
Works.  Prompt set-up of this control function has been proven to be paramount
in the successful handling of large incidents.
DISASTER:  An unforeseen, unplanned for emergency which exceeds the day -
to - day capabilities of local government.
Helicopter Emergency Medical Services (HEMS):  The HEMS is the licensed
helicopter ambulance service available to our county.  Depending on the size of
incident this list may include the National Guard and Coast Guard.  The
dispatch centers will maintain an updated list of available HEMS.
EMS: Emergency Medical Services.
EXTRICATION GROUP LEADER:  An officer assigned to oversee the removal
of patients from vehicles or structures and coordinate their movement from the
incident site to the treatment area.
INCIDENT COMMANDER (IC):  The individual responsible for the management
of all incident operations at the incident site.
INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS): The combination of facilities,
equipment, personnel, procedure, and communications operating within a
common organizational structure, with responsibility for the assigned resources
to effectively accomplish stated objectives pertaining to an incident
MASS CASUALTY INCIDENT (MCI):  An incident in which the number of
patients exceeds local resources.  All patients are at one general location with a
common time of insult.
April, 2013
Section 1 – Definitions
Page - 2
MCI PLAN:  A plan which coordinates the response of multiple EMS agencies
and resources in order to assure the delivery of adequate pre-hospital care and
orderly distribution of patients to appropriate hospitals.  The plan may be
implemented on the following incidents:
1.
Total patients exceeds 5 stretcher patients, or;
2. 4
critical patients, or;
3.
Any incident or combination of incidents which will exceed t he
resour
ces of the local EMS agency.
The MCI Plan is organized into preplanned responses of various EMS
personnel and vehicles needed to mitigate multiple patient incidents involving
different numbers of patients.  Criteria for the correct plan selection is as
follows:
PLAN
PATIENTS AMBULANCES
A 5 – 10 5 – 6
B 11 – 20 8 – 10
C 21 – 30 13 – 15
D 31 – 40 18 – 20
E 41 – 50 23 – 25
GREEN 51 – 150 30 – 40
YELLOW 151 – 300 50 – 75
RED 301 – 500 75 - 100
MEDICAL BRANCH DIRECTOR:  An official assigned to oversee all EMS
functions during an MCI.  The Medical Branch Director functions as a member
of the Operations Section and may have three (3) direct subordinates:  Triage
Group Leader, Treatment Group Leader, Transportation Group Leader.  The
Medical Branch Director should be the individual that has the most knowledge
of area EMS capabilities.  He/She will formulate a plan of action for the incident,
relay to his/her subordinates, and troubleshoot any EMS problems.  The
Medical Branch Director will keep Incident Command advised of any changes in
the strategic plan.
April, 2013
Section 1 – Definitions
Page - 3
MEDICAL COORDINATION CENTER (MCC): When activated the MCC may
be responsible for coordinating patient destinations, contacting area hospitals to
determine and monitor their status, notifying area hospitals of inbound injured,
and keeping the Transport Group Leader informed of each hospital status.
The Yamhill County MCC’s are located at Station 1, Station 20, Station 8, and
Station 9.
MEDICAL RESOURCE HOSPITAL (MRH): Medical Resource Hospital (MRH)
based in Portland, OR is a service provided by the OHSU Emergency
Department for paramedics in the field.  OHSU Emergency room physicians are
available 24/7 by radio or phone
to give medical advice
to approve medication orders
to direct resuscitation and end-of-life efforts
to explain to patients the consequences of refusing treatment
to clarify protocols
This assistance is provided to EMS personnel in Multnomah, Clackamas,
Washington, Columbia, and Hood River counties.
When an MCI in Yamhill County requires patients be transported to hospitals in
the Portland metropolitan area, MRH is a resource that will alert hospitals on the
nature and scope of the Yamhill County MCI and will coordinate patient
distribution to the various Portland areas hospitals.
OVERHEAD TEAM:  A team of specially trained individuals formed to manage
an incident.  These individuals may be from one or more agencies, and may be
utilized when an incident overwhelms an agencies’ ability to assign their own
personnel to manage functions within their own emergency system.
SINGLE COMMAND STRUCTURE:  A command structure with one officer in
command of the entire scene.
STRIKE TEAM (Ambulance):  A response team of five (5) transporting
ambulances with a strike team leader from specified areas with common
communication.  This team would stage at a designated location and respond to
the staging area together.
April, 2013
Section 1 – Definitions
Page - 4
STAGING AREA MANAGER: An officer assigned the various tasks related to
the arrival of EMS personnel and vehicles.  This officer will work directly with the
Medical Branch Director and the MCC to assure adequate personnel, vehicles
and equipment are on the scene, and that they are staged in a manner which
provides for a smooth flow into the scene.  Tasks might include staging
incoming vehicles and personnel, stockpiling equipment, and informing the
Medical Branch Director of the levels of EMS personnel as they arrive.
TASK FORCE (EMS):  A response team of five (5) pieces of apparatus from a
specified region with common radio communication.  This team ideally should
consist of three (3) engines and two (2) rescue units capable of transport.  The
EMS Task Force will be led by a Task Force Leader.
TRANSPORTATION GROUP LEADER:  An officer assigned to coordinate the
distribution of patients to available and appropriate hospitals.  The
Transportation Group Leader will communicate with the MCC or Resource
Hospital to obtain availability of hospitals, and as patients are ready for
transport, assign a hospital destination.  The Transportation Group Leader will
then communicate patient information to the MCC or Resource Hospital.
TREATMENT GROUP LEADER:  An officer assigned to coordinate treatment
of patients in the treatment area and allocate the resources appropriately.  The
Treatment Group Leader will re-triage patients as they arrive in the treatment
area and assign each patient to a treatment area based on triage tag level.
EMS Personnel will be assigned to the treatment area as they arrive on scene.
TRIAGE GROUP LEADER:  An officer assigned the task of triaging patients in
the incident area.  This will normally be one of the first officers assigned and the
Triage Group Leader may head up a triage team in larger incidents.  The Triage
Group Leader will coordinate with the Extrication Group Leader (if assigned) or
extrication personnel to oversee the movement of patients to the treatment
area.
UNIFIED COMMAND STRUCTURE:  A horizontal command structure with
command officers of various agencies operating at the same level.
Section 2
GENERAL
GUIDELINES
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan
April, 2013
Section 2 – General Guidelines
Page - 1
The Goal Is To Activate Systems, Not Stress Them!
Discipline Is The Key To This Goal
1. When confronted with any mass casualty incident, it will be the
res
ponsibility of the first arriving unit to determine the most appropri ate
l
evel of MCI response, and then implement the incident command system.
This MCI Plan can be implemented or not used at the discreti on of the
comm
and people on scene.  It is a tool.
2.
Definitions and responsibilities shall be detailed within the MC I Plan to
prov
ide standardized and coordinated response to any MCI.  All other
areas should be addressed in an ASA plan or at the local level.
3. Triage of patients will be accomplished utilizing the S. T. A. R.  T.
pri
nciples. (Simple Triage and Rapid Treatment)
4. Communications during an MCI shall be accomplished via de dicated
freque
ncies depending on whether the incident is local or regional .
5
. Local government has the responsibility for protecting life, environmen t,
and
property during an MCI or disaster.  This MCI plan is meant to s erve
as a
n adjunct to county or ASA or MCI Disaster Plans, not a replacement.
6. The National Incident Management System (NIMS) will be utilized to
manage any incident.  Recognizing the different experience levels  of
di
fferent agencies and personnel, it is up to each individual agenc y to
i
mplement the NIMS on incidents in their jurisdiction and manage th e
i
ncident.
7.
Mobilization will be determined using the pre-planned respo nses
deve
loped by each agency.  This is located in Section 6.
8. When an incident threatens to overwhelm an agency’s dispatch center ,
tha
t agency may request that the MCC is activated is a specific  area.
April, 2013
Section 2 – General Guidelines
Page - 2
Communications
1. Requests for assistance from mutual aid agencies should be m ade
throug
h the Public Service Answering Point (PSAP) of the agency i n
comm
and of the incident.  Station 82, YCOM, Fire Com etc. U pon
not
ification of zone and plan level, the PSAP should refer to the
appropr
iate MCI Dispatch Sheet and contact the agencies or PSAP listed.
2. The PSAP should radio, when possible, or landline mutual ai d agencies
w
ith the MCI zone and plan level.  Agencies that are responding should
the
n refer to the appropriate MCI Zone and Plan Level to see whic h
apparat
us or the types and numbers are sent.
3. Apparatus responding to the scene sh ould be given general directions to
the
 incident, location of the staging area, and contact the Stagi ng Area
Manager
 on the appropriate radio frequency.  Apparatus moving up  to
cov
er will contact the appropriate PSAP or MCC when in position to cover
the district.
4. All communication with hospitals will be made through MRH or MCC vi a
the
 Transportation Group Leader.
5. The MRH or the MCC will landline area hospitals to determine availabilit y.
This wi
ll be recorded on the Patient Transport Log and then rela yed to the
Trans
portation Group Leader.  Communication with the Transportati on
Group Leader
can be with either radio or cell phone.
6. As patients leave the scene by ambulance, the Transportation Gr oup
Leader
 will contact the MRH or the MCC and give them a brief patient
report: (M-4 transporting 2 patients, ETA 8 minutes. Patient 1 Red  Tagged
(or
 critical), chest injuries, GCS 11, Pt. 2 Yellow or non-critical, back pai n
and
arm fracture, GCS 15).  MRH or MCC will then landline the receivi ng
hosp
ital and relay this information.  Patient information will be recorded o n
the
 Patient Transport Log which MRH or MCC will also have.
Section 3
COMMAND
STRUCTURE
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan
April, 2013
Section 3 – Command Structure
Page - 1
The following organizational charts represent the suggested structure of the
Medical Branch of the Incident Command System. These charts are intended to
assist the Medical Branch Director in organizing an effective and efficient
structure. The charts are organized according to the number of patients injured
and correspond with the respective Mass - Casualty Incident Plan level ( A - E ).
With good pre-planning, the command structure in EMS incidents can be
anticipated in advance, thus eliminating confusion at the scene. It is not the
intent of this section to limit the structure being set up, or limit the number of
personnel to involve. Every incident and every agency is different. These charts
merely serve as a blueprint when preplanning, training, and may provide the
needed framework when it is time to manage an incident.
April, 2013
Section 3 – Command Structure
Page - 2
MEDICAL BRANCH
MCI - PLAN A
Medical Branch Director /
 Transportation
  I
       I
   _________________ _I__________________
   I  I          I
        I       I          I
 Triage/Extrication    Treatment     _ _ _I_ _ _
   I        I
   ____I____   ______I________
   I    I   I   I    I
   I    I   I   I    I
  Team 1    Team 2    Level 1   Level 2  Level 3
5 - 10 Patients
April, 2013
Section 3 – Command Structure
Page - 3
MEDICAL BRANCH
MCI - PLAN B
 Medical Branch Director    Staging
  I    I
  ___________________I_________________ I
 I   I         I
 I            I       I
 Triage / Extrication   Treatment   Transportation
 I     I
 I       I
   ____I____     _______ I________
   I  I    I    I    I
   I  I    I    I   I
  Team 1     Team 2    Level 1   Level 2    Level 3
  I
  I
 Crew
11 - 20 Patients
April, 2013
Section 3 – Command Structure
Page - 4
MEDICAL BRANCH
MCI - PLAN C
   Medical Branch Director
       I
   _______________________  _I____________________
      I           I     I         I
      I             I             I                I
S
taging     Triage    Treatment    Transport
   I  I        I
   I       I                I
   I    _____ _I_______         I
   I   I   I    I          I
   I   I   I    I          I
  Extrication    Level 1   Level 2   Level 3         Aide
   I   I    I
   I   I     I
   I   I     I
 Team 1   Crew   Crew
     I         I
 Team 2   Crew
     I
 Team 3
21 - 30 Patients
April, 2013
Section 3 – Command Structure
Page - 5
MEDICAL BRANCH
MCI - PLAN D
        Medical Branch Director
       I
  _______________________I_______________________
 I   I   I           I
 I        I         I           I
Staging      Triage         Treatment          Transport
  I       I            I
  I           I               I
  I    _______I_______          I
  I    I   I    I           I
  I    I   I    I           I
  Extrication     Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   Aide
  I    I   I  I
  I    I   I  I
  I    I   I  I
  Team 1    Crew   Crew   Crew
       I         I   I
  Team 2    Crew   Crew
       I         I
  Team 3    Crew
       I
  Team 4
31 - 40 Patients
April, 2013
Section 3 – Command Structure
Page - 6
MEDICAL BRANCH
MCI - PLAN E
   Medical
  Branch Director     Aide
   I  I
   _______________________I____________I____________
   I     I    I    I
     I        I       I       I
 Triage   Treatment   Transport    Staging
   I   I     I
   I          I          I
   I   ________I_________   I
   I   I    I    I   I
   I   I    I    I   I
Extrication     Level 1   Level 2   Level 3   Aide
 I  I   I     I
 I  I   I     I
 I  I   I     I
 Team 1     Crew  Crew   Crew
      I         I   I     I
 Team 2     Crew  Crew   Crew
      I       I   I
 Team 3     Crew  Crew
      I       I
 Team 4     Crew
      I
 Team 5
41 - 50 Patients
Section  4
RESOURCE
LISTS
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan
April, 2013
Section 4 – Resources
Page - 1
First Responders // Quick Response Teams
AGENCY UNIT ALS BLS RESCUE
TOOL
TRANSPORT
CAPABLE
Amity Fire R-5 X1
Carlton Fire R-7 X1
Dayton Fire R-6 X 1
Dundee Fire R-3 X1
Gaston Fire R-11 X1 X
Lafayette Fire R-10 X
McMinnville Fire E-1 X 1
Newberg Fire R-21 X 1 X
Sheridan Fire R-9 X1
West Valley Fire R-8 X1
Yamhill Fire R-4 X1
YAMHILL COUNTY EMS TASK FORCE
(For Response to Other Counties)
When Possible, Send a TASK FORCE LEADER
TASK FORCE ENGINE RESCUE
TASK
FORCE
LEADER
RESPONSE
AREA STAGING LOCATION
CHARLIE
E-25
E-1
E-61
R-21 On Call
Duty Officer
North and
East
Newberg Station or
Yamhill Station
DELTA
E-91
E-
1
E-51
R-8
R-4
On Call
Duty Officer
South and
West
Amity Station or
Sheridan Station
April, 2013
Section 4 – Resources
Page - 2
YAMHILL COUNTY STRIKE TEAMS
(For response to other counties when possible send a STRIKE TEAM or TASK FORCE LEADER)
TEAMS UNITS STRIKE TEAM
LEADER RESPONSE AREA STAGING LOCATIONS
1
M-1
M-10
M-20
M-21
M-9
Newberg Fire Dept    On
Call Duty Officer
Multnomah County
Clackamas County
I-84 Corridor
North Marion County
Newberg Fire Station
414 E. 2nd St
Newberg, OR 97132
2
M-1
M-10
M-20
M-21
M-9
McMinnville Fire Dept    On
Call Duty Officer
Washington County
Columbia County
Clatsop County
Yamhill Fire Station
275 S. Olive St.
Yamhill, OR 97148
3
M-1
M-10
M-20
M-9
M-8
Mc
Minnville Fire Dept    On
Call Duty Officer
South & East of
Yamhill County
Amity Fire Station
700 S. Trade St.
Amity, OR 97101
4
M-1
M-10
M-20
M-9
M-8
We
st Valley Fire Dept or
Sheridan Fire Dept
On Call Duty Officer
Central & South
Coast
Grande Ronde Station
28480 McPherson
Grand Ronde, OR 97347
April, 2013
Section 4 – Resources
Page - 3
AMBULANCE RESOURCES LISTED BY COUNTY
(  Within  3  hours  of  Yamhill  County )
COUNTY   PSAP LOCATION PHONE
NUMBER
Benton Benton County Corvallis 1-541-766-6911
Clackamas     C - COMM
AMR - Northwest Oregon City 1-503-655-8911
1-503-231-6300
Clatsop  Clatsop
Medix Astoria 1-503-325-4411
1-503-861-1990
Columbia  Columbia County St. Helens 1-503-397-1521
Lane  Central Lane Comm.
Florence PD
Eugene
Florence
1-541-344-2211
1-541-997-3515
Lincoln  WVCC Lincoln City
Newport 1-503-585-8910
Linn  Linn County Albany 1-541-967-3911
Marion  WVCC Salem 1-503-585-8910
Multnomah Multnomah County
AMR Northwest Portland 1-503-823-0911
1-503-2316300
North Marion County NOR - COMM Woodburn 1-503-982-2340
Polk  WVCC Salem 1-503-585-8910
Tillamook  Tillamook County Tillamook 1-503-842-2561
Washington WCCCA
Metro West Amb. Beaverton 1-503-629-5766
1-503-648-6656
HELOCOPTER EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVCICE RESOURCES
SERVICE PHONE  NUMBER ROTOR
WING
FIXED
WING
Life Flight / Portland 1-800-452-7434 2 2
Reach 1-800-338-4045 1 1
Air Link / Bend 1-800-621-5433 1 2
Oregon National Guard      1-800-452-0311 10 0
Coast Guard / North Bend 1-541-756-9220 4 0
Airlift  NW / Seattle Area 1-800 426-2430 4 1
Mercy Flights / Medford 1-800-903-9000 1 1
April, 2013
Section 4 – Resources
Page - 4
HOSPITAL RESOURCES
Within 3 hours of Yamhill County
HOSPITAL  ER PHONE SPECIALTY
Albany General 1-541-812-4194 Level 3 Trauma
Columbia Memorial // Astoria 1-503-338-7508 Level 4 Trauma
Emanuel // Portland 1-503-413-4121
Level 1 Trauma
Peds & Peds Trauma
Burn Center
Good Sam // Corvallis 1-541-768-5021 Level 2 Trauma
Lebanon Community 1-541-451-7115 Level 4 Trauma
Meridian Park // Tualatin 1-503-692-7467
North Lincoln 1-541-996-7118 Level 4 Trauma
Pacific Communities 1-541-574-1818 Level 4 Trauma
Peace Harbor // Florence 1-541-997-1076 Level 4 Trauma
Providence Newberg 1-503-537-1785  No designation
Sacred Heart // Eugene 1-541-686-6929  No designation
Salem Memorial 1.503-814-1300 Level 2 Trauma
Tillamook  1-503-815-2280 Level 4 Trauma
OHSU // Portland 1-503-494-7333 Level 1 Trauma
Peds & Peds Trauma
West Valley Hospital // Dallas 1-503-623-7333 Level 4 Trauma
McKenzie-Willamette // Springfield 1-541-726-4580 Level 3 Trauma
Sacred Heart // River Bend Eugene 541-222-6929 Level 2 Trauma
WVMC // McMinnville 503-472-7192 Level 3 Trauma
MC
I TRAILERS & HAZ MAT TRAILERS
AGENCY MCI TRAILER HAZ MAT TRAILER
McMINNVILLE FIRE MCI-1 HAZ MAT-1
NEWBERG FIRE MCI-2 HAZ MAT-2
SHERIDAN FIRE MCI-9
YAMHILL FIRE MCI-4
April, 2013
Section 4 – Resources
Page - 5
OTHER EMS CAPABLE UNITS
Typical Staffing in (   ) All Units BLS Unless Otherwise Noted
AGENCY UNIT UNIT UNIT UNIT UNIT
AMITY FIRE BR-5 (2) E-53 (3) BR-57 (2) E-52 (4)
CARLTON FIRE E-72 (4) BR-7 (2) E-74 (4) E-77 (3)
DAYTON FIRE E-61 (3) BR-6 (3) BR-63 (2)
DUNDEE FIRE E-31 (4) BR-37 (4)
GASTON FIRE E-1171 (4) E-1172 (4)
LAFAYETTE FIRE E-101 (3) E-102 (3) R-101 (2)
McMINNVILLE FIRE S-1 (4) E-1 (4) E-15 (4) BR-1 (4)
NEWBERG FIRE E-20 (2) TX E-21 (2) E-201 (4) BR-20 (2) BR-21 (2)
SHERIDAN FIRE E-91 (5)  SQ-9 (2)  BR-97 (2) BR-98 (2) R-9 (5)
WEST VALLEY FIRE E-8 (2) E-82 (2) E-81 (2) BR-8 (2) BR-82 (2)
YAMHILL FIRE BR-4 (2) E-42 (4) E-43 (3) E-41 (4) Car 4 (1-2)
R
ESCUE EQUIPMENT AND CAPABILITIES
AGENCY
RESCUE
TOOL
AIR
BAGS GENERATOR LIGHTS TORCH
ROPE
RESCUE BOAT
AMITY FIRE BR57 R5 R5 R5
CARLTON FIRE E72 E72, E74, E77 AT 7
DAYTON FIRE R6 R6 R6 E61
DUNDEE FIRE R3 R3 R3 / E36
R3 /
E36
GASTON FIRE STA 11
LAFAYETTE FIRE E101, R101, E102
McMINNVILLE FIRE SQ1 E1 SQ1
E15,E16, SQ-1
MCI-1
SQ1 STA1
NEWBERG FIRE R21 E20 R21
E20, E21. R21,
E202,E212
STA 20
R21 WR20
SHERIDAN FIRE R9 M91 E91 R9
WEST VALLEY FIRE SQ8 SQ81 R8 R8 STA 81
YAMHILL FIRE E42 STA4 R4 BR4 E41
Y C S O 2
Section 5
FIELD
GUIDES
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 1
Are you the first arriving EMS unit?
|
|
|
 Yes ______________________________ No - Go to page 2
  |
  |
  |
1.
Establish Command.
2. Im
plement MCI  Plan and relay the following
In
formation to dispatch :
- P
lan level
-
Zone number
- Exa
ct location / Landmarks
- D
rill ? Not a drill ?  ( Repeat X 2 )
- Lo
cation of staging area
- Main radio frequency
3. Establish Medical Branch ___________ Go to page 6
4. Establish Triage Group _____________ Go to page 7
5. Following triage if patient count is over 50, request additional
resources accordingly. Consider activating the county EOC
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 2
* * * START HERE   If you are not the first arriving EMS Unit
FIRST - Look up response assignment
      Are you responding to the scene?
      |
 Yes _________________ ______________ No
   |        |
ENROUTE :  ENROUTE :
       |                                                                    |

/ Contact MCC if established otherwise contact Incident Command
       |        |
Proceed to scene      Proceed to Move - up location
   |      |
       |            |
Review MCI Plan                    Review MCI Plan
   |  |
   |      |
Don EMT level identification           Review Move - up area maps
   |  |
       |        |
Contact Med. Branch near scene            ON ARRIVAL
   |  Contact Dispatch / MCC
 |  |
Did you receive an assignment?                     |
    |      Maintain contact with Dispatch / MCC
       |
 No _________________________ Yes
  |          |
       |            |
Proceed to staging  Med. Branch Dir. ___________ Go to page 6
       |
On arrival :             Triage Group Lead. __________ Go to page 7
Contact Operations
Drop equipment and            Treatment Group Lead. _______ Go to page 8
personnel as needed.
Never separate Driver,   Transport Group Lead.  ________ Go to page 9
vehicle and stretcher.
    Other________ Report to Med. Branch Dir. or
      Refer to specific checklist
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 3
Incident Dispatcher
CHECKLIST
Function:  Communications
Objective: To manage the dispatch and radio communications of the Incident.
You report to:  Dispatch Supervisor
 Incident Command er
H
as the first EMS unit arrived?
|
|
|
 Yes ______________________________ No - Go to page 2
  |
       I
(  ) Announce Upgrade to MCI.
  Broadcast should include the following information:
- P
lan level
-
Zone number
- Exa
ct location
-
Drill? Not a drill
- As
sign Radio Frequency
(  ) Dispatch additional units to the scene - see Section 6 for Zone
 Response Assignments
(  )    Notify C12 or DC1 (MFD) ---Activate MCC?
(  )  Dispatch units moving up to other locations
(  )  Record Unit Times
(  )  Provide Incident Support
(  )    Upgrade / Downgrade as necessary.
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 4
Incident Dispatcher
CHECKLIST
*** Start Here  If the first EMS Unit has not arrived
Has the first EMS Unit arrived?
I
                No - or - Initial call indicates need for MCI

(  )  Dispatch MCI - see Section 6 for Zone Response Assignments
      Broadcast should include the following information:

 - Plan level
 - Zone number
 - Exact location
 - Drill? Not a drill?
 - Assign Radio Frequency

(  )  If Plan A - Notify C12 or DC1 - Activate MCC?

(  )  If Plan B or Greater - Activate MCC

(  )  Dispatch units moving up to other locations

(  )  Record Unit Times
(  )  Provide Incident Support
(  )  Upgrade / Downgrade as necessary.
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 5
Incident Command
CHECKLIST

PRIORITIES:
Life safety
Incident Stabilization
Property Conservation

[   ] 1. Arrival.....Give Size Up and Establish Command.

                   Does this involve FIRE?   [   ]
                                       MEDICAL?   [   ]
                                       HAZ MAT?   [   ]

[   ] 2. Does IC need to be transferred?

[   ] 3. Immediate needs ASSIGNMENTS / ADDITIONAL RESOURCES.

[   ] 4.Set up Command Post ........ Give location.

[   ] 5. Assign Safety Officer.

[   ] 6. Passport system in operation?

[   ] 7. Secure area.....Traffic / Crowd Control- - - Police.

[   ] 8. Assign Staging Officer / Area.

[   ] 9. Set up Operations Branch........Refer to Tactical Worksheet.

[   ] 10. More delegating needed?

[   ] 11.Staff briefing and begin planning process.

[   ] 12. Finance, Logistics, Planning sectors needed? From here refer to Tactical
Worksheet.

April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 6
Medical Branch Director

Function:  Medical Branch

Objective:  To manage the Medical Branch

You report to:  Incident Command

{ }  Make rapid assessment of incident
{ }  Designate Triage Group Lead.
{ }  Implement MCI Plan. (Refer to page 1)
{ }  Don Identification Vest
{ }  Review entire checklis t and develop a plan of action
{ }  Establish a Medical Branch
{ }  Review EMS structure for MCI Plan
{ }  Designate the following officers if necessary:

 { } Triage (Already done?)
 { } Treatment
 { } Staging
 { } Transport
 { }  Extrication (Coordinate with Incident Command)
 { } Resource
 { } Public Information
 { } EMS Command Aide

    DON’T HESITATE TO COMBINE SEVERAL OF THE ABOVE POSITIONS

{ }  Distribute vests, ID tags etc.
{ }  Inform the officers of the following:
 { } Overall plan of action
 { } Location of Medical Command post
 { } Any changes in plan
 { } All resources assigned by EMS Branch Dir.
 { } Areas of Medical Operations
{ }  Inform Treatment Officer of the number of patients
{ }  Inform Resource Officer of potential needs
{ }  Coordinate with IC to establish helicopter landing zone
{ }  Get status reports from all officers every 10 minutes
{ }  Meet with Public Information Officer
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 7
Triage Group Leader

Function:  Triage Group Leader
Objective:  To prioritize patients according to severity of injury

You report to:  Medical Branch Director

{ }  Don ID vest
{ }  Review entire checklist
{ }  Develop a plan of action for triage of patients
{ }  Assign additional personnel if needed
{ }  Triage patients as quickly as possible
{ }  Inform Med. Branch Director of the number of patients

{ }  Advise Med. Branch Dir. of the security needs of triage area
{ }  Develop a plan for the movement of patients to treatment
{ }  Coordinate the movement of patients
{ }  Advise Med. Branch Dir. if an Extrication Officer is needed
{ }  Obtain the location of treatment areas

{ }  Supervise the Extrication Group Lead, if one is assigned
{ }  Assign 1 EMT with 1 Firefighter for movement of patients
{ }  Inform Med. Branch Dir. of any resource needs
{ }  Act as Extrication Group Lead. if one is not assigned

April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 8
Treatment Group Leader

Function:  Treatment Group Leader
Objective: To coordinate treatment of all patients

You report to:  Medical Branch Director

{ }  Don ID vest
{ }  Review entire checklist
{ }  Develop a plan of action for the treatment of patients
{ }  Advise Med. Branch Dir. of personnel needs

{ }  Obtain MCI kit and establish 3 treatment areas
{ }  Advise Triage / Extrication of treatment areas
{ }  Re - triage patients as they enter treatment area
{ }  Assemble treatment teams and assign to treatment areas

{ } Advise Med. Branch Dir. of security needs of the Treatment area
{ }  Inform Med. Branch Dir. of potential equipment needs
{ }  Identify ambulance loading zone with Transport Group
{ }  Signal Transport Group when patients are ready for transport

April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 9
Transport Group Leader

Function: Transport Group Leader
Objective:  To coordinate flow of patients to appropriate medical facilities
You report to:  Medical Branch Director

{ }  Don ID vest
{ }  Review entire checklist
{ } Coordinate with MCC in contacting area hospitals to determine
the number of critical and non - critical patients they can treat
 Log this on Hospital/patient tracking log
{ }  Establish ambulance loading zone, inform:
 { } Med. Branch Dir.
 { } Staging
 { } Treatment
{ }  Follow the rule of thumb for patient transport, when possible:
1 critical patient per ambulance, or
2 non - critical per ambulance
{ }  Direct loaded ambulances to appropriate hospitals, inform them:
 { } Transport Group will contact receiving hospital
 { } Don’t contact hospital unless necessary
{ }  Log the following info on the Hospital/patient tracking log:
 { } Patient number (Patient # 1, patient # 2, ETC.)
 { } Triage tag number
 { } Time enroute to hospital
 { } Hospital destination
 { } Ambulance unit number
 { } Patient triage level
 { } Brief description of injuries
{ }  Inform MCC of the following when ambulance departs:
 Coordinate the transfer if info to the receiving hospital
 { } Ambulance destination
 { } Ambulance number
 { } Time enroute
 { } Number and level of patients on board
 { } Brief description of injuries (if time permits)
{ }  Keep Staging updated on needs
{ } Coordinate with MCC the contact of area hospitals when MCI
terminated.
April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 10
Staging Area Manager

Function: Staging Area Manager

Objective:  To stage ambulances

You report to:  Medical Branch Director

{ }  Don ID vest
{ }  Review entire checklist
{ }  Establish a staging area which is accessible and easy to ID
{ }  Coordinate ambulance flow with Transport Group
{ }  Coordinate equipment needs with Resource Group
{ }  As ambulances arrive:
{ } Log in arrival time on ambulance staging log
{ } ID EMT levels
{ } Stockpile equipment needs for Resource Officer
{ } Send supplies and spare EMT’s to Resource.
{ } Never separate driver, vehicle, and stretcher
{ } Distribute ID tags if necessary
{ }  Keep Med. Branch Dir. informed of ambulance status

{ }  If personnel arrive in private vehicles:
 { } Log in arrival time
 { } Name
 { } ID EMT level
 { } Distribute ID tags
 { } Inform resource Officer

{ }  Act as Resource Officer if one is not assigned

April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 11
Extrication Group Leader

Function: Extrication Group Leader
Objective: Transport victims to treatment areas and gain access as needed.

You report to:  Triage Group Leader

{ }  Don ID vest
{ }  Review entire checklist
{ }  Size-up gaining access/disentanglement problems  (if any)
{ }  Develop a plan to move patients to treatment areas
{ }  Communicate plan to extrication teams
{ }  Coordinate with Fire / Rescue gaining access problems
{ }  Report equipment needs to Extrication Group Leader
 Trauma - 1 long backboard / patient
 Trauma - 1 C - collar / patient
 Trauma - 1 set head immobilizers
 Medical - 1 flat stretcher / patient
{ }  Report personnel needs to Extrication Group Leader
{ }  Extrication teams should be made up of the following:
 1 - Firefighter or rescue worker
 1 - First Responder or EMT
{ }  Coordinate patient movement plan with Triage Group
{ }  Obtain treatment area locations from Triage Group
{ } After all patients have been removed, send personnel to resource
area.

April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 12
EMS Resource Group Leader

Function: Resource Group Leader

Objective:  Stockpile equipment and manpower

You report to:  Med. Branch Dir.

{ }  Don ID vest
{ }  Review entire checklist
{ }  Establish a resource staging area for:
 1.  EMS personnel
 2.  EMS equipment
 3.  Rehab for fire and EMS personnel

{ }  Categorize personnel according to skills / EMT level ETC.
{ }  Distribute EMT ID if needed
{ }  Attempt to mark or tag equipment before use
{ }  Inform Med. Branch Dir. of any needs

April, 2013
Section 5 – Field Guide
Page - 13

              Incident Command Tactical Worksheet
DIVISION  ASSIGNMENTS UNITS
ASSIGNED CHECK LIST
[   ]  Command Post Set-up
[   ]  Situation Status
[   ]  Transfer Of Command
[   ]  Aide For Command
[   ]  Offensive Strategy
[   ]  Defensive Strategy
[   ]  Sectorize W/Assignment
[   ]  Additional Alarms
[   ]  Level II Staging
[   ]  Progress Reports
[   ]  Red Cross/Chaplain
[   ]  Review and Revise Plan
[   ]  Recall Box Alarm
[   ]  Return App. To Service
[   ]  Terminate Command
[   ]  Primary Search
[   ]  All Clear
[   ]  Secondary Search
[   ]  Pt. Triage and Treatment
[   ]  Pt. Transportation
[   ]  Medical Operations
[   ]  Attack and Backup Lines
[   ]  Water Supply
[   ]  Attic and Concealed Spc.
[   ]  Exposure and Extent
[   ]  Ventilation
[   ]  Utilities Shut Off
[   ]  Salvage
[   ]  Lights and Air
1st [   ]  Re-hab Rotation
Alarm [   ]  Public Information
2nd [   ]  Investigator
Alarm [   ]  Police Crowd / Traffic
3rd [   ]  Overhaul
Alarm [   ]  Photographer
Rescue / Medical Check List
Fire Incident Check List
Responding Apparatus

Section 6
ZONE
RESPONSE
ASSIGNMENTS

Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 1
ZONE 1 McMinnville – North (North Mac)
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Newberg - 2
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
McMinnville
Engine &
Squad
McMinnville
Newberg
B
11 - 20
Newberg – 1
Sheridan – 1
West Valley – 1
Metro West - 2
Carlton Closest
HEMS X 2
Lafayette Eng.
MCI 1
Sheridan
West Valley
Carlton / Lafayette
Metro West
C
21 – 30
Dallas – 1
Salem - 1
Metro West – 2
Polk Co. – 1
Dundee

Closest
HEMS X 3
Dayton Engine
MCI 2
Dundee / Dayton
Dallas / Salem
Metro West
Polk Co.
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team
Dayton

Closest
HEMS X 4 Carlton Engine
Marion Co.
Dayton
Carlton
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team Newberg Closest
HEMS X 5 Yamhill Engine
Newberg
Yamhill
Linn Co.

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Sheridan Amb.
1 – West Valley Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Sheridan Amb.
1 – Salem Amb.
To Station 1
1 - Dallas
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert  Air Link
C
Dayton Rescue
To Station 10  Alert  Airlift  NW
D
Forest Grove
Rescue
To Station 4

Alert
Coast
Guard
E
Amity Rescue
To Station 1

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 2
ZONE 1 McMinnville – South (South Mac)
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Newberg – 1
Sheridan - 1
Dayton
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
McMinnville
Eng. & Squad

McMinnville
Newberg
Sheridan
Dayton
B
11 - 20
Sheridan – 1
West Valley – 2
Newberg – 2

Amity

Closest
HEMS X 2
Dayton
Engine
MCI-1
Sheridan
West Valley
Newberg – Amity
Dayton
C
21 – 30
Dallas – 1
Metro West – 1
Polk Co. – 1
Salem - 1
Lafayette
Carlton
Closest
HEMS X 3
Sheridan
MCI-9
Amity / Carlton
Lafayette / Salem
Polk Co.
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team Dundee Closest
HEMS X 4
Lafayette
Engine
Dundee
Lafayette
Marion Co.
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team Sheridan Closest
HEMS X 5
West Valley
Engine
Linn Co.
Sheridan
West Valley

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Sheridan Amb.
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Metro West
1 – Salem Amb.
To Station 1
1 - Dallas
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert  Air Link
C
1 – Salem And
1 – Metro W.
Amb. To Station 1
 Alert  Airlift  NW
D   Alert Coast Guard
E
Yamhill Res. To St. 1
Gaston Res. To St. 4

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 3
ZONE 2 Newberg
EMS DISTRICT Newberg
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
Newberg – 3
McMinnville – 1
St. Paul - 1
Newberg
Dundee
Closest
HEMS X 1
Newberg
Engine
Newberg
Dundee
McMinnville
St. Paul
B
11 - 20
McMinnville – 2
Metro West – 2
AMR - 1
TVF&R Closest
HEMS X 2
Dundee
Engine
McMinnville
Metro West
AMR
Dundee
C
21 – 30
North Marion
Strike Team
Dayton
Lafayette
Closest
HEMS X 3
Yamhill
Engine
Woodburn
Dayton
Yamhill
Lafayette
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team Yamhill Closest
HEMS X 4
Dayton
Engine
AMR
Yamhill
Dayton
E
41 - 50
Washington Co.
Strike Team
McMinnville
TVF&R
Closest
HEMS X 5
Carlton
Engine
Marion Co.
McMinnville
Wash. Co.
Carlton

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – McMinnville
Ambulance
To Station 20
1 – Sheridan
Ambulance
To Station 1

B
1 – Sheridan
Ambulance
To Station 20
1 – West Valley +
1 – Sheridan
Amb. To Station 1
1 – Dallas
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert Air Link
C
1 – West Valley
Ambulance
To Station 20
1-Salem Amb.To St. 1
McMinn. Rescue
To Station 10
 Alert Airlift NW
D
Gaston Rescue
To Station 4  Alert
Coast Guard
E

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 4
ZONE 3 Dundee
EMS DISTRICT Newberg
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
Newberg – 3
McMinnville – 1
St. Paul 1
Newberg
Dundee

Closest
HEMS X 1
Newberg Eng.
Dundee Eng.
Newberg
McMinnville
St. Paul
Dundee
B
11 - 20
McMinnville – 2
West Valley – 1
Sheridan – 1
Metro West - 1
Dayton Closest
HEMS X 2
Dayton
Engine
MCI -1
West Valley
Metro West
Dayton
Sheridan
C
21 – 30
North Marion
Strike Team Carlton Closest
HEMS X 3
Lafayette
Engine
Woodburn
Carlton
Lafayette
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team
McMinnville
TVF&R

Closest
HEMS X 4
Yamhill
Engine
AMR
McMinnville
Yamhill
Wash. Co.
E
41 - 50
Washington Co.
Strike Team
Lafayette
Yamhill
Closest
HEMS X 5
McMinnville
Engine
Marion Co.
Lafayette
Yamhill
McMinnville

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – McMinn. Amb.
1 – Metro We. Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Sheridan
Ambulance
To Station 1

B
1 – Metro We. Amb.
1 – TVF&R Rescue
To Station 20
Sheridan Amb. To St. 1
MW. Amb. To St. 4
1 – Dallas
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert Air Link
C   Alert Airlift NW
D
1 – Pacific West
Ambulance
To Station 8
Alert
Coast Guard
E
Gaston Rescue
To Station 4

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 5
ZONE 4 Yamhill – North East
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 2
Newberg – 3
Yamhill
Gaston
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
Yamhill Engine
Gaston Engine
McMinnville
Newberg
Yamhill
B
11 - 20
McMinnville -1
Metro West -2
Sheridan - 1
Newberg
Carlton
Closest
HEMS X 2
Newberg
Engine
McMinnville
Squad
Sheridan
West Valley
Newberg
Lafayette / Carlton
C
21 – 30
AMR
Strike Team
Lafayette
Dundee
Closest
HEMS X 3
Forest Grove
Engine
Dundee
Engine
AMR
Lafayette
Dundee
.
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team Dayton  Closest
HEMS X 4
Newberg
Engine
Marion Co.
Dayton
Newberg
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team
Sheridan
Amity
Closest
HEMS X 5
Dayton
Engine
Dayton
Sheridan
Amity

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Sheridan Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – West Valley Amb.
To Station 1  Alert Air Link
C
Dayton Rescue
To Station 10  Alert  Airlift  NW
D
Forest Grove
Rescue
To Station 4

Alert
Coast
Guard
E

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 6
ZONE 4 Yamhill
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Newberg – 2
Yamhill
Carlton
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
Yamhill Engine
Carlton
Engine
McMinnville
Newberg
Yamhill
Carlton
B
11 - 20
Newberg – 1
Metro West - 2
Sheridan – 1
McMinnville
Gaston
Closest
HEMS X 2
McMinnville
Engine
And Squad
MCI-1

Newberg, McMinn.
Wash. Co
Sheridan
C
21 – 30
AMR
Strike Team
Lafayette
Dundee
Closest
HEMS X 3
Gaston
Engine
Dundee
Engine
AMR, Gaston
Lafayette, Dundee
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team

Dayton

Closest
HEMS X 4

Newberg
Engine
MCI-2
Marion Co. Co.
Dayton
Newberg
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team
Sheridan
Amity
Closest
HEMS X 5

Dayton
Engine

Dayton
Sheridan
Amity

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Newberg
Ambulance
To Station 1
Pacific West
Ambulance
To Station 8
Alert Air Link
C
Gaston Res. To St. 4
Dundee Rescue
To Station 10
 Alert  Airlift  NW
D   Alert Coast Guard
E

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 7
ZONE 5 Amity - North
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Sheridan - 1
Newberg – 1
Amity-Perrydale
Dayton
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby

Dayton
Engine
Amity Engine
McMinnville
Dayton, Amity
Sheridan
Newberg
B
11 - 20
West Valley – 2
Newberg – 1
Dallas - 2
McMinnville
Lafayette
Closest
HEMS X 2

McMinnville
Engine
MCI-1
McMinnville
West Valley
Lafayette, Newberg
Dallas
C
21 – 30
Salem – 1
Sheridan – 1
Polk Co. – 1
Salem - 1
Dundee
Sheridan
Closest
HEMS X 3
Sheridan
Engine
MCI-9
Dundee
Sheridan, Dallas
Polk Co., Salem
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team

Carlton
Dallas

Closest
HEMS X 4

West Valley
Engine

Carlton
West Valley
Dallas
Marion Co.
E
41 - 50
Linn - Benton
Strike Team Yamhill Closest
HEMS X 5

Dundee
Engine

Yamhill
Dundee
Linn Co.

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro West Amb.
1 – Sheridan Amb.
To Station 1
 Alert Air Link
C
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Metro West
 To Station 1
1 – Pac. West
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert  Airlift  NW
D    Alert Coast Guard
E
Yam. Resc. To St. 10
Gaston Rescue
To Station 4

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 8
ZONE 5 Amity South
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville - 2
Sheridan - 1
Dallas - 1
West Valley - 1
      Dayton
Salem Eng.
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby

Dayton
Engine
Squad 1

McMinnville
Sheridan
West Valley
Dayton
Dallas
Salem
B
11 - 20
McMinnville - 1
Newberg - 1
Salem - 2
Dallas - 1

McMinnville
Amity

Closest
HEMS X 2
Engine From
McMinnville &
Spring Valley
MCI-9
McMinnville
Spring Valley
Newberg
Sheridan
Amity, Salem
C
21 – 30
Newberg – 1
Sheridan – 1
Salem – 1
West Valley – 1
Polk Co. - 1
Lafayette
Carlton
Polk
Closest
HEMS X 3
SW Polk
Engine
MCI-1
Newberg
Lafayette, Carlton
Sheridan, Salem
Polk
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team

Dundee
Carlton

Closest
HEMS X 4

Salem
Engine

Dundee
Sheridan
        Marion Co.
E
41 - 50
Linn - Benton
Strike Team Newberg Closest
HEMS X 5

Dundee
Engine

Newberg
Salem
Linn Co.

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Sheridan Amb.
To Sta. 1
1 – West Valley Amb.
To Sta. 9 Alert Air Link
C
1 – West Valley Amb.
To Sta. 1

1 – West Valley Amb.
To Sta. 9

Alert Airlift NW
D
1- Metro West Amb.
1-St. Paul Amb.
To Sta. 20
Gaston R-11
To Sta. 4
1—Pac. West Amb.
To Sta. 8 Alert Coast Guard
E
Yamhill  R-4
To St. 10

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 9
ZONE 6 Dayton – North (Fairview North)
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Newberg – 1
Sheridan - 1
Amity
Dayton
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
Dayton  Engine
McMinnville
Squad
Lafayette Eng
McMinnville
Dayton, Amity
Sheridan
Newberg/ Lafayette
B
11 - 20
Sheridan – 1
West Valley – 1
Newberg – 2
McMinnville
Dundee
Closest
HEMS X 2

McMinnville
Engine

Newberg, Dundee
West Valley
McMinnville
Sheridan
C
21 – 30
Dallas – 1
Polk Co. – 1
Salem - 2
Lafayette Closest
HEMS X 3
Dundee
Engine
Salem
Dallas
Lafayette
Dundee
D
31 - 40
Linn-Benton
Strike Team

Carlton

Closest
HEMS X 4

Sheridan
Engine

Linn Co.
Sheridan
Carlton
E
41 - 50
AMR
Strike Team
Yamhill
Sheridan
Closest
HEMS X 5
West Valley
Engine

West Valley
Sheridan
Yamhill
AMR

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – West Valley And
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Metro West
Ambulance
To Station 1
1 – Pac. West
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert Air Link
C
Yamhill
Rescue
 To Station 1
 Alert  Airlift  NW
D
Gaston
Rescue
To Station 10
 Alert Coast Guard
E

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 10
ZONE 6 Dayton - South
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Salem – 1
Sheridan - 1
Amity
Dayton
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby

Dayton
Engine
Amity Engine
McMinnville
Dayton, Amity
Sheridan
Dallas
B
11 - 20
Newberg – 2
West Valley – 1
Salem – 1
Dallas - 2
McMinnville
Spring
Valley
Closest
HEMS X 2

McMinnville
Engine
Salem Engine
Newberg
McMinnville
West Valley
Salem, Dallas
C
21 – 30
Newberg – 1
Sheridan – 1
Polk Co. – 1
Salem - 1
Lafayette
Dallas
Closest
HEMS X 3
Sheridan
Engine
Newberg, Lafayette
West Valley
Sheridan, Dallas
Polk Co., Salem
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team
Dundee
Sheridan

Closest
HEMS X 4

West Valley
Engine

Dundee
Sheridan
West Valley
Marion Co.
E
41 - 50
Linn - Benton
Strike Team Carlton Closest
HEMS X 5

Dundee
Engine

Dundee
Carlton
Linn Co.

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro West Amb.
1 – Sheridan Amb.
To Station 1
 Alert Air Link
C
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Metro West
 To Station 1
1 – Pac. West
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert  Airlift  NW
D    Alert Coast Guard
E
Yam. Resc. To St. 10
Gaston Rescue
To Station 4

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 11
ZONE 7 Carlton
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Newberg - 2
Carlton
Yamhill
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
Carlton Engine
Lafayette
Engine
McMinnville
Newberg
Yamhill / Carlton
Lafayette
B
11 - 20
Sheridan – 1
West Valley – 1
Newberg – 1
Metro West - 2
Lafayette Closest
HEMS X 2
McMinnville
Engine
And Squad
Yamhill Engine
Sheridan
West Valley
Newberg
Lafayette
C
21 – 30
AMR
Strike Team Dundee Closest
HEMS X 3
Dayton Engine
Gaston Engine
TVF&R
Engine
AMR
Dundee
Wash. Co.
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team
Dayton

Closest
HEMS X 4

Dundee
Engine

Marion Co.
Dayton
Dundee
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team Newberg Closest
HEMS X 5
Dayton
Engine
Newberg
Engine
Linn Co.
Newberg
Dayton

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Sheridan Amb.
1 – West Valley Amb.
To Station 1
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Sheridan Amb.
1 – Salem Amb.
To Station 1
1 - Dallas
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert Air Link
C
Dayton Rescue
To Station 10  Alert  Airlift  NW
D
Forest Grove
Rescue
To Station 4

Alert
Coast
Guard
E
Amity Rescue
To Station 1

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 12
ZONE 8 West Valley
EMS DISTRICT West Valley
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
West Valley – 2
Sheridan - 2
McMinnville - 1
West Valley
Sheridan
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
2 – Sheridan
Engines
West Valley
Sheridan
McMinnville
B
11 - 20
McMinnville – 2
Newberg – 1
Pac West – 1
Tillamook - 1
McMinnville
Nestucca
Closest
HEMS X 2
Sheridan
Engine
Nestucca
Engine
McMinn., Sheridan
Newberg, Pac W.
Nestucca
Tillamook
C
21 – 30
Dallas – 2
Pac West – 1
Tillamook - 2
Dayton
Dallas
Closest
HEMS X 3
McMinn. Engine
McMinn. Squad
MCI - 1
Dallas, Dayton
Pac West
Tillamook
McMinnville
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team
Amity

Closest
HEMS X 4
Amity
Engine
Amity
Marion Co.
E
41 - 50
Linn – Benton
Strike Team Dundee Closest
HEMS X 5
Dundee
Engine
Dundee
Linn Co.

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Newberg
Ambulance
To Station 1
McMinn. Amb. – St. 8
McMinn. Amb. – St. 9
B
1 – St. Paul Amb.
1 – Metro West Amb.
To Station20
Newb. Amb. – St. 1
MW Amb. – St. 4
Carl. Resc. – St. 1
Newberg Amb. – St. 8
Salem Amb.
To Station 9
Alert Air Link
C   Alert Airlift NW
D   Alert Coast Guard
E

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 13
ZONE 9 Sheridan
EMS DISTRICT Sheridan
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
Sheridan – 2
West Valley – 2
Dallas - 1
West Valley
Rescue And
Engine
Closest
HEMS X 1
Sheridan
Engine
Sheridan
McMinnville
West Valley
Polk Co.
B
11 - 20
Dallas – 2
McMinnville – 3
Polk Co. - 1
McMinnville Closest
HEMS X 2
Sheridan
Engine
MCI-9
SQ-9
McMinnville
Sheridan
Polk Co.
C
21 – 30
Newberg – 2
Polk Co. - 2 Dallas Closest
HEMS X 3
McMinnville
Engine and
Squad, EMS
Chief
Newberg
McMinnville
Polk Co.
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team Dallas Closest
HEMS X 4
Salem FD EMS
Chief
Amity
Marion Co.
E
41 - 50
Linn – Benton
Strike Team Salem FD Closest
HEMS X 5
Albany or
Corvallis FD
EMS Chief
Linn-Benton Co.
Salem FD

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
McMinn. Amb. – St. 9
1 – Pac. West Amb.
To Station 8
Mac MCI Trailer 1 to
Station 9
B
1 – Metro West
Ambulance
To Station 20
1 – New. Amb. - St. 1
1 – Metro W. Amb.
To Station 4
1 – Newberg
Ambulance
To Station 9

Alert Reach & Air Link

C
1 – St. Paul Amb.
1 – AMR Amb.
To Station 20
2 – Metro West
Ambulances
To Station 1
1 – Polk Co.
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert National Guard
McNary Filed
D
Alert
Coast
             Guard
E

April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 14
ZONE 10 Lafayette
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
1 – Sheridan Amb.
1 – Newberg Amb.
To Station 1

B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Metro West
1 – Salem Amb.
To Station 1
1 - Dallas
Ambulance
To Station 9
Alert Air Link
C
1 – Salem And
1 – Metro W.
Amb. To Station 1
 Alert  Airlift  NW
D    Alert Coast Guard
E   Yamhill Res. To St. 1
Gaston Res. To St. 4

PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
McMinnville – 3
Newberg – 1
Sheridan - 1
Dayton
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
Dayton
Engine
McMinnville
Squad
McMinnville
Newberg
Sheridan
Dayton
B
11 - 20
Sheridan – 1
West Valley – 1
Newberg – 2

Lafayette Closest
HEMS X 2
McMinnville
Engine
Carlton Engine
Sheridan
West Valley
Newberg
Carlton / Lafayette
C
21 – 30
Dallas – 1
Metro West – 1
Polk Co. – 1
Salem - 1
Dundee Closest
HEMS X 3
Dundee
Engine
Dundee
Salem 911
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team
Amity

Closest
HEMS X 4

Sheridan And
Amity Engine

Amity
Sheridan
Marion Co
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team Sheridan Closest
HEMS X 5
Yamhill
Engine
Gaston Engine

Linn Co.
Sheridan
Yamhill
April, 2013
Section 6 – Zone Response Assignments
Page - 15
ZONE 11 Gaston
EMS DISTRICT McMinnville
PLAN MEDIC  UNIT RESCUE AIR SPECIAL AGENCIES
A
5 - 10
Metro West - 2
McMinnville - 2
Newberg - 1
Gaston
Yamhill
Closest
HEMS X 1
Standby
Yamhill Engine
Carlton
Engine
McMinnville
Newberg
Yamhill / Carlton
Wash. Co.
B
11 - 20
Metro West – 1
Newberg - 2
McMinnville - 1
Carlton Closest
HEMS X 2

McMinnville
Engine
And Squad

Newberg, McMinn.
Carlton

C
21 – 30
AMR
Strike Team
Lafayette
Dundee
Closest
HEMS X 3
Gaston
Engine
Dundee
Engine
AMR, Gaston
Lafayette, Dundee
Coast Guard
D
31 - 40
Marion Co.
Strike Team

Dayton

Closest
HEMS X 4

Newberg
Engine
Marion Co. Co.
Dayton
Newberg
E
41 - 50
Linn Benton
Strike Team
Sheridan
Amity
Closest
HEMS X 5

Dayton
Engine

Sheridan
Amity

MOVE – UP ASSIGNMENTS
PLAN EAST CENTRAL WEST OTHER
A
B
1 – Metro W. Amb
1 – St. Paul Amb.
To Station 20
1 – Sheridan
Ambulance
To Station 1
Pacific West
Ambulance
To Station 8
Alert Air Link
C    Alert  Airlift  NW
D    Alert Coast Guard
E

Section 7
ZONE
MAPS
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan

Section 8
POST-INCIDENT
ANALYSIS
Yamhill County
Mass-Casualty Incident Plan
April, 2013
Section 8 – Post-Incident Analysis
Page - 1
Post-Incident Analysis

Purpose

To look for success, and to insure that mass casualty incidents are investigated
and critiqued so that changes, if needed, in response, training, communications,
and planning can be made.  The goal is to use an incident as a training / learning
tool to improve future incident response.  The Incident Commander and Medical
Branch Director shall insure that the incident is analyzed and critiqued.  This
analysis is not to be confused with, or held in conjunction with a Critical Incident
Stress Debriefing.

Timing

The post-incident analysis should be conducted in a convenient location within two
(2) weeks following the incident.  Timely notification should be given to all agencies
who participated in the incident.

Report

After the post-incident analysis, a typed, objective case study should be submitted
to the host community and to the ATAB 1 and/or 2 MCI Committee.
It will include a minimum of:

1. Sources used, avoiding individual names.

2. Successes found.

3. Constructive criticisms and recommended solutions to problems in:

 Training
 Prehospital Response
 Incident Communication
 Hospital Response
 Planning

4. A chronological listing of incident events.

MCI  PLAN

MCI  PLAN

MCI  PLAN

APPENDIX M