Zoning Ordinance
Section 1012.00 Country Inn/Bed and Breakfast Facilities
[Last amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]

1012.01  Standards and Requirements
A.  The following provisions shall apply to bed and breakfast facilities:

1.  A bed and breakfast is a single-family dwelling where lodging is offered
for compensation, having no more than nine (9) sleeping rooms for this
purpose. Bed and breakfast operations that are undertaken from within a
residence shall be considered as home occupations, and shall comply with
the standards and limitations of Section 1004. A bed and breakfast inn
may offer a morning meal for overnight guests only. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]

2.  Water from any source other than a municipal or public supply shall be
tested initially and annually thereafter, or more frequently as required by
the County Health Department, and determined to be safe for public
consumption. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]

3.  When the facility has more than two rooms for rent, an on-site
examination of the premises shall be made by a county health inspector to
review food handling and tourist/traveler health and safety practices.
[Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]

4.  An on-site examination of the premises shall be made by local fire
department personnel to advise of appropriate fire and safety code
requirements.

B.  Where facilities are approved for three or more guest bedrooms and up to 10
guests, State Administrative Rule and statutory requirements for Bed and
Breakfast and Tourist/Traveler facility licensing shall be satisfied.

C.  Review of bed and breakfast facility applications may include but is not limited to
consideration of the following:

1.  Compatibility Issues

a.  Signage

b.  Parking

c.  Other compatibility considerations

2.  Location Suitability

a.  Accessibility

b.  Services
<br<
c.  Impact on vicinity uses

d.  Other location considerations

3.  Structural Suitability

a.  Safety and security

b.  Design and privacy

c.  Other structural considerations

4.  Referral Comments

a.  Environmental Health Division

b.  Fire Department

c.  Other agencies/interests

1012.02  Applications, Permits, and Licenses
The following applications, permits and licenses shall be obtained as appropriate to
satisfy the above requirements:
1.  Conditional Use Application

2.  Public Water System Approval

3.  Site Authorization Permit (where remodeling to add bedrooms or bathrooms)

4.  Site Suitability and Septic Authorization Permit(where new construction is
provided)

5.  Bed and Breakfast License (3 or more bedrooms)

6.  Tourist Facility License (3 or more bedrooms)

7.  Building Permit(s) (any remodeling or new construction)

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page