BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                  SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Comprehensive Plan from
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Public, and Zone Change

                                                                               eee
from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry to PAI, Public Assembly                              Ordinance 863
Institutional for Tax Lot 3203-103, Applicant Gibbs Cemetery,

                                                                               eee
Planning Docket PAZ-05-10, and Declaring an Emergency

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on February 17, 2011, Commissioners Leslie Lewis and
Kathy George being present, and Commissioner Mary P. Stern being excused.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Gibbs Cemetery applied fora Comprehensive Plan
amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Public, and a zone change from AF-10,
Agriculture/Forestry to PAI, Public Assembly Institutional for expansion of the existing cemetery
by one half-acre on Tax Lot 3203-103, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at a
duly noticed public hearing on January 6, 2011, then voted unanimously to recommend approval.
The Board heard this matter at a duly noticed public hearing on February 10, 2011, then voted 2-0
to approve the application (Commissioner Stern being excused). NOW, THEREFORE,

           IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in Exhibit "A," the Findings for Approval, hereby incorporated into this Ordinance by this
reference. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective immediately. A map
is appended as Exhibit "B".

          DONE this 17th day of February, 2011, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                     YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                         ypralad                (Excused)

County Clerk        PS             BERENS                              MARY P. STERN

By (AO ESS                           A       Baek           bf    lbs Soce’)
Deputy Anne Britt            Lene.           (imissioner ¥             LESLIE LEWIS

APPROVED AS TO FORM:               Lick           ;              pV
   Mb: hw                            Commissioner                 VY KATHY GEORGE

Rick Sanai, County Counsel                                                       B.0. U-4S
Findings - Docket PAZ-05-10 (Gibbs Cemetery)
Page 2

DOCKET NO.:              PAZ-05-10

REQUEST:                 Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry
                         Small Holding to Public; a zone change from AF-10, Agriculture/Forestry to
                         PAL Public Assembly Institutional for expansion of the existing cemetery by
                         one half of an acre.

APPLICANT:               Gibbs Cemetery

TAX LOT:                 3203-103

LOCATION:                Approximately 750 feet northeast of the intersection of Leander Drive and
                         Canter Lane, Newberg

CRITERIA:                Sections 501, 801 and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.
                         Section 904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied. Comprehensive Plan
                         policies may be applicable. OAR 660-12-0060 Transportation Planning Rule.

FINDINGS:

As       Background Facts:

1.       Property Size: Approximately 0.5 acres of Tax Lot 3203-103.

2.       Access: Leander Drive.

3.       On-site Land Use: The 0.5 acres that is to be re-zoned is an orchard. There are no buildings
         on this portion of property.

4,       Surrounding Land Use: The remainder of Tax Lot 3203-103 is an orchard with an open field
         near the center of the parcel. To the south of Tax Lot 3203-103 is a parcel zoned PAI and is
         approximately 1.46 acres and is the existing cemetery. To the west, across Leander Drive, is -
         zoned VLDR-2.5, Very Low Density Residential and is made up of rural residential parcels
         of approximately two to three acres in size. To the south is a parcel zoned PWS, Public Works
         Safety and is the owned by the Sunridge Homeowners Association. Further to the south and
         east is zoned VLDR-2.5 and are rural residential parcels of approximately 2.5 acres.

5.       Water: None will be needed for the proposed use,

6.       Sewage Disposal: None on the subject parcel and a septic system is not needed for the
         proposed use.

7.       Fire Protection: Newberg Rural Fire District

                                                                                          “B.0. NAS
Findings - Docket PAZ-05-10 (Gibbs Cemetery)
Page 3

         Soils: Yamhill County Soil Survey shows parcel is composed of Laurelwood Silt Loam (LuC)
         which is rated agriculture Class III, high-value farmland.

         Previous Actions: In 2008, an application for a plan amendment and zoned change from EF-
         40, Exclusive Farm use to AF-10 was approved through Docket PAZ-01-08. In 2010, an
         application for a lot-line adjustment to transfer the 0.5 acres from 3203-103 to 3203-5400 in
         order to expand the cemetery was approved through Docket L-33-10.

         Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis
i

         Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards and
         criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

         (A)     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other applicable
                provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

         (B)     There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                 requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
                 economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the
                 availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
                 allowed by the zone.

         (C)     The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
                 density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred
                 in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and
                services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

         (D)   — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
                 unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other
                factors.

         (E)     The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
                 exceptions, if applicable.

         Regarding criterion (A) above, the Board finds that the applicant has addressed the
         Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies.

         Policy LB.1.d.: No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially influence
         the extension of costly services and facilities normally associated with urban centers, such as
         municipal water supply and sanitary sewerage or power, gas and telephone services, nor shall
         it impose inordinate additional net costs on mobile, centralized public services, such as police
         and fire protection, school busing or refuse collection,
Findings - Docket PAZ-05-10 (Gibbs Cemetery)
Page 4

         The zone change does not require the extension of utilities or services to the area as water and
         sewer are not needed for the proposed use.

         Policy ILA.1.h.: No proposed rural area development shall substantially impair or conflict
         with the use of farm or forest land, or be justified solely or even primarily on the argument
         that the land is unsuitable for farming or forestry or, due to ownership, is not currently part
         of an economic farming or forestry enterprise.

         It appears the proposed zone change would cause little interference with the use of other farm
         and forest land in the vicinity. The parcel is located in an area that is zoned for rural
         residential uses.

         Regarding criterion (B), the Board finds that the applicant has shown there is an existing
         demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the requested zone, considering the
         importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market
         demand that such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other lands so zoned
         and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone, as required by YCZO     1208.02(B).

         The application states the cemetery currently has less than 7% available sites that are not
         designated and the expansion will benefit several generations by being able to increase the
         number of burial sites. The Planning Department looked at existing PAI zones within
         Township 3 South, Range 2 West. It appears that there are four other PAI zones and all lots
         are currently developed with churches. The first two are Tax Lot 3208-2701 and Tax Lot
         3207AA-100. Both of these parcels are approximately 2.5 miles from the subject parcel. The
         third is Tax Lot 3220-1100 which is approximately 3.75 miles away. The fourth parcel is made
         up of Tax Lots 3219-2100 and 2200 and is approximately 4.75 miles away.

         Regarding criterion (C), the Board finds that the applicant has shown the proposed change to
         be appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of development
         in the area, any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed
         amendment and the availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated
         uses in the proposed district. The surrounding land uses are primarily rural residential. A
         cemetery does not generate a lot of traffic and does not create noise beyond what is normally
         expected in a rural residential area. Additionally, the expansion would not require any
         additional utilities or services.

         Regarding criterion (D), the Board finds that the applicant has shown that other lands in the
         county already designated for the proposed uses are either unavailable or not as well-suited for
         the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other factors, as required by YCZO 1208.02(D).
         As stated in Finding B.3, other PAI zoned parcels were looked at within a 5 mile radius
         (within Yamhill County) of the subject parcel and four other parcels were found, however,
         these lots are currently being used for churches. While this is not an exhaustive study, the
         Planning Department is unaware of other available PAI zoned property within five miles of
Docket PAZ-05-10 (Gibbs Cemetery)
Page 5

          the subject site.

6.        Regarding the criterion (E), an exception is not required since the parcel is not located within
          a goal protected farm or forest zone.

Cc.       Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis

 1.       The   provisions      of the Transportation Planning      Rule, implementing   Goal   12, must be
          addressed.    OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

          (1)     Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
                  regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that
                  allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of
                  service of the facility. This shall be accomplished by either:
                  (a) _ Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function, capacity
                              and level of service of the transportation facility;
                  (b)     Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                          Jacilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                              requirements of this division; or,
                  (c)        Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                             demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

          (2)     Aplanor land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation facility
                  if it:
                  (a)         Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned transportation
                          facility;
                  (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
                  (c)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or
                           access which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
                             transportation facility; or
                  (d)        Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum acceptable
                             level identified in the TSP.

2.        Regarding (1) and (2), the Public Works Department indicated there are no conflicts with the
      .   Public Works Department. As indicated in Finding B.4, a cemetery does not generate a lot of
          traffic. In addition, this cemetery is an expansion of an existing use, therefore, the plan
          amendment and zone change will not significantly affect the transportation facility. The
          request complies with OAR 660-12-060.

LIMITED USE OVERLAY:

1.        Section 904.03 of the YCZO contains provisions for limited use overlays. It states:

          (4)     When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the underlying
Docket PAZ-05-10 (Gibbs Cemetery)
Page 6

                      zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance adopting the
                      Limited Use Overlay District.

           (B)        The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require conditional use approval for
                      uses normally permitted outright.

           (©),       Reasonable conditions may be imposed in the Limited Use Overlay District as are
                      necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and
                      this ordinance.

           (D)     — Uniil the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses in an LU
                     district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.

2.         Since the PAI zone allows other uses which have not been evaluated to determine whether they
           are appropriate to the area, it is appropriate to apply a Limited Use Overlay to limit uses on
           the rezoned area to a cemetery and related facilities.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.         The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change from AF-10,
           Agriculture/Forestry to PAI, Public Assembly Institutional for expansion of the existing
           cemetery.

2.         The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

3.         The proposed amendment is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.02.

4,         The proposed amendment complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

DECISION:

The Board hereby approves the request by the Gibbs Cemetery for a Comprehensive Plan map
amendment from Agriculture Forestry Small Holding to Public and a zone change from AF-10,
Agriculture/Forestry to PAI, Public Assembly Institutional on a 0.5 acre portion Tax Lot 3203-103
with a limited use overlay. Uses shall be limited to a cemetery and related facilities,

FAUsers\sanair\LU\GibbsCemetaryPAZ-05-10.SR.wpd
                                                  ‘OPT = “ary                                             “uoWseyasdiayisisnut 20 ssnenn ‘suojssnuo ‘s1DLie dais 10] ayqgsuodan jou 8) Amon
                                                 erry                                                                          LADD pUsUNIEANT A Woddns oy Amon oxy Aq paulj
                                                                                                             SEUNP S10 OU, "EP SID Auno> jysureg omp Bayen paonposd seen deur sys,

                                                                                                                                                                                              B.0- IIS
                  OTOZ/L/OE
                                                                ‘OV ESZ
                                                                  LOLS    | goes
                                                                      ANOZ Wd   |. 88498 Sry
                                                                                     ‘OVW 89°CL
BGS
ORDIMAA CE

                  muo8Ajod jopray   |   aa   |
                     saat open)
                    soa30 1484s
             sxanry opydeisoye3         af
                             Soy,
             sayouenyaequan LLL
                      npeg Amo
                              :
                              .
                          aon 4p
                     O1-S0-ZVd

                                                                                                     na
                                                                                                   6
                                                                                               Baw
                                                                                                 ty
                                                                                                                                           .                                                      Grayujefun   2a asnspo ‘sooyssquse   ‘oars dae 103 sjq}spades you 5} Symnoo
                                                                               -                                 .                                                                                   auf, “sapanow porramiusn® sy yoddas 0) Anos ap Aq pares
                                   JY 000% = THT                :                                                                                                                  _          Symp GUE) OtLE, HED GIS AnOD gwRMER oy Balsa pesnpoed sors duu sIyL
    ;                           Pe ae ren et Soe                                           .
e       oxoziLsor
                                                                                                                 peat
                                                                                                         auora           |        PWS
                                                                                                                                          sateMica Jugs ar? S |oegtMary
                                                                                                    sesery pees ere
                                                                             qua                                              such
                                                                                                                               ais PM
                                                                                                                                          use
                                                                                                                                          eat                 cane
                                                                                                                                                               WE
                                                                                                                                                            “atice
                                                                                                                                                              xd
                                                                       pio                               Dorel
                                                                        ne                                    oe                    sae                       aust
                                                                                                                                                               tae
                                                                                                                                                            he
                                                                                                                                                            —
                                                                                                         of                  an
                                                                                                              4”                                            oH
                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                     i /f BHBH AL
                                                                                                    ana
                                                                             auni              wx             ws                           eff               ome
                                                                                                                                          on
                                                                                          stgBe                                                       ane
                                                                                    me
                                                                                    oad
                                    NT uaLNVO                                      fal}
                                                                                                                                                                                        sane
                                                   ,                Auedaig diane                                                                        eee
                                                                                                                                                           =
                                                                                                                                                                              |5         tee
                                                                                                         re
                                                                                                                                                                                                         tie
                                                                     ad waanwat’
                                                                                                                     i                                                                                   ng               :
                                                                .                                                                                                                                                             .                        eta
                                                           ae                                                                                  etd
            suadfjod open                                                                      sine                                            meer                  oarses                                                                                \y
                sum 0pm)                                                                          a fy                                           Se                                    wa}        on                                                            y
                                                                                                    =                                                                                   orf         UR             §                                  et        El
              adem yoy                                                                                                                                ra
        smany opde8oys)
        vayosomparmen LEP                              -                     GY SINOH NIV.LNNOW
                 yy Amen    ¥
                  _ snp     .
E               Ol-S0-ZVd