rin 84 vce 079
                                                                                       05    MAY -4      A923
           IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON                                                 '

                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approving a Plan Amendment
from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to

                                                     SS
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding, and a Zone

                                                     SS
Change from EF-20 Exclusive Farm Use to
AF-10 Agriculture Forestry Small Holding for a                ORDINANCE 767

                                                     ww
21.27 Acre Parcel Located on the North Side of
Chehalem Drive, Yamhill County, Tax Lot
3301-100, Applicants Matthew and Renee Powell,
Docket PAZ-02-03, as Remanded by the Land Use

                                                     ee
Board of Appeals, and Declaring an Emergency

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for the
transaction of county business at 10:00 a.m. on April 27, 2005, in Room        32 of the courthouse,
Commissioners Mary P. Stern, Leslie Lewis, and Kathy George being present.

THE BOARD MAKES          THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:

A,      In 2003, Matthew and Renee Powell applied for a zone change from Agriculture/Forestry
Large Holding to Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding, a zone change from EF-20 Exclusive Farm
Use to AF-10 Agriculture Forestry Small Holding and taking an exception to Goal 3 fora 38.71 Acre
Parcel located on the north side of Chehalem Drive, Yamhill County, Tax Lots Nos. 3301-100, -101
and -102, Docket PAZ-02-03. This application was approved by Ordinance 737 and timely appealed
to the Land Use Board of Appeals, which remanded the decision to the Board for additional
proceedings,

B.     A public remand hearing was held before the Board on March 23, 2005 to consider testimony
and evidence, after which the public hearing was closed and the applicants and opponents were
allowed opportunity to submit additional written testimony, to be considered by the Board in its
deliberations at the formal session of April 13, 2005; and

G.      At its regularly scheduled April 13, 2005, the Board voted unanimously to approve the
application and directed that findings in support of the application be prepared for consideration on
April 27, 2005; NOW    THEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD that the application is approved as detailed in
Ordinance 737 and the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference
incorporated herein, based on the findings of fact and law contained in the applicant’s burden of
proof entitled “Remand of LUBA Final Opinion and Order No. 2004-089” and the written and oral
evidence and testimony contained in the record of the public hearing.

                                                                                        Ordinance 767
                                                                                                Page 1
                                                                                B.0. OS 248
                                                                                                     rin B4 ace U8O
This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County,
and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

DONE this 27th day of April, 2005, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                                              YAMHILL
                                                          he        ee        OF—— COMMISSIONERS
                                                         i\|        Lf
                                                                  (F ea
                                                                        Solar

JAN COLEMAN                                                1 uy 1 aN VAX
                                                                             \     MARY       P. BLERN

APPROVED AS TO FORM.                                           ek,               teary
                                                    Commissionet_)                | KATHY GEORGE
       ers, Gn?
RICK SANAI
Assistant County Counsel
C:\Documents and Settings\whitec\Local Settings\Temporary Internet Files\OLK6\Powell-Ord 767.wpd

                                                                                                          Ordinance 767
                                                                                                   %o.05-74%   — Paee?
                                         Exhibit “A”                               FILA   84    PACE   U84.
                               FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

DOCKET:             PAZ-02-03

REQUEST:            Approval of a Comprehensive Plan map            amendment     from Agriculture
                    Forestry Large Holding to Agriculture Forestry Small Holding; a zone change
                    from EF-20 Exclusive Farm Use to AF-10 Agriculture Forestry Small
                    Holding, on remand from LUBA Final Opinion and Order No. 2004-089.

APPLICANTS:         Matthew and Renee Powell

OWNERS:             Robert and Judith Travers and the Chehalem Park and Rec. District

ATTORNEY:           John A. Rankin, LLC.

TAX LOT:            3301-100

LOCATION:           17650 NE Chehalem Drive, Newberg, Oregon, approximately % of a mile
                    south of the intersection of Bald Peak Road and Chehalem Drive, on the
                    north side of Chehalem Drive.

CRITERIA:           Sections 402, 501, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.
                    Section 904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied. Comprehensive Plan
                    policies may be applicable. ORS 197.732, Goal Exceptions, and OAR 660-
                    04, Exception Process does not apply because the Board found that the
                    property is not agricultural land (i.e., not resource land), and that the taking
                    of an exception is not necessary for non-resource land.

FINDINGS:

As   Background Facts:

1s   Property size: Tax Lot 100 is 21.27 acres.

2    Access: N.E. Chehalem Drive, a county public road.

3,   On-site Land Use: Tax Lots - 100 is developed with a single family dwelling. Taken as a
     whole, the property slopes down to the south and contains an older non-stocked cut-over
     small woodlot area on the steeper slopes of the northeast with no commercial value timber
     and very thick overgrown underbrush. The application indicates that the steeper original
     pasture/orchard area located on Tax Lot 100 has not been farmed at least since the 1970s or
     otherwise used for farm uses for a significant number of years.

4.   Surrounding Land Use: the applicants have given a detailed description of the surrounding
     land use on page 7 and 8 of their original application burden of proof as well as in the

                                                                                      Ordinance 767
                                                                                              Page 3
                                                                               B.0-09-296
                                                                                    run &4 vse O82
      supplemental submitted materials, including the remand burden of proof and written
      response to opponents, which documents are incorporated here by this reference.

      Surrounding Zoning: Zoning to the north is EF-20, Exclusive Farm Use. Zoning to the
      south, east and west is AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding.

      Water: The existing dwellings on the subject properties have access to spring water that
      serves the City of Newberg. The new proposed dwelling will likely be served by an on-site
      well.

      Sewage Disposal: To be provided by an on-site septic system.

      Fire Protection: Newberg Rural Fire District.

      Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the subject property parcel is primarily
      composed of Jory soils that are rated agriculture Classes II, I, IV and VI. A site specific
      “Detailed Inventory of Soils on Tax Lot 100" prepared for the applicants’ remand request by
      Certified Soil Scientist Joel A. Norgren, dated December 31, 2005, modifies the original Soil
      Survey and establishes that approximately 60% of the total existing soils possess a soil
      capability class VI and above; 85.6% of the total existing soils possess a soil capability class
      of IV, V and VI; that only 2.3% have a soil capability class of II; and that the subject property
      consists of 66.3% Low Value soils and 33.7% High Value Soils.            Therefore, the subject
      property is land of predominantly soil capability class VI and above; and is land of
      predominantly   Low Value Soils. Of the existing soils, 86% has a soil capability class TV and
      above, and only 5% has a soil capability class of Il.

10.   Taxes: Tax Lot 100 has 20.27 acres on farm deferral.

11.   Previous Actions: In 1978 partition Docket P-818-78 was approved that created Tax Lots 100
      and 101. At the time the estimated acreages of these lots was 22.0 for Tax Lot 100 and 20.2
      for lot 101. These were later revised by the Assessor’s Office as 21.27 for Tax Lot 100 and
      17.44 for the combination of Tax Lot 101 and 102. (Note: Page 8 of the applicants’
      submittal, stated that: “The subject property, including Tax Lots 100, 101 and 102, has
      existed in its current configuration since the County partition approval created Tax Lots 101
      and 102 from 100 in 1979 (File No. P-967-79).” After the LUBA remand, the applicants
      removed Tax Lot 101 and 102 from the remand request; this decision only affects Tax Lot
      100.

12    Floodplain: FIRM 410249 0159 C, shows that the property, is not within the 100-year flood
      hazard area.

13.   Fish and Wildlife:   The property is not identified as critical fish or wildlife habitat.
                                                                                      rin 84 ince 083

     Remand Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis
i=

     Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards and
     criteria in YCZO Section 402, 501, and 1208.02, as well as the applicable Comprehensive
     Plan policies and the Transportation Planning Rule. These standards and criteria were
     already addressed in the Ordinance 737 with findings attached thereto as Exhibit A, with are
     incorporated herein by this reference.

     As noted above, on remand the applicants modified the application by reducing the subject
     property to Tax Lot 100, and the Board’s proceedings on remand represent a continuation
     of the original application rather than a new application. Therefore, the Board’s record that
     led to the earlier LUBA appeal is properly part of the record on remand unless specifically
     excluded by the Board. Rutigliano v. Jackson County, 47 Or LUBA 628 (2004). The Board
     is allowing its earlier findings to stand in addressing this remand zone change and plan
     amendment for the modified subject property, unless otherwise amended by these new
     findings contained in this Exhibit A.

     Procedurally, the Board reviewed LUBA’s Final Opinion and Order and determined that
     LUBA did not specifically instruct the Board to limit the scope of remand proceedings, and
     the Board finds that the YCZO is silent as to the procedures required for LUBA remands.
     However,   under Section 1400, Administrative Provisions, the Board is entitled to limit the
     scope of remand proceedings to correcting the deficiencies that were the basis for LUBA’s
     remand, CCCOG v. Columbia County, 44 Or LUBA 438 (2003).

     On page 5 of the Final Opinion and Order, LUBA 2004-089, LUBA states that “Petitioner
     [Friends of Yamhill County] raises one assignment of error, entitled ‘Reasons Exception’,
     with four sub-assignments of error.” Three of the four sub-assignments of error address:
     1) the market analysis; 2) the alternative sites analysis required by the exception criteria; and
     4) a case law prohibition on granting an exception for uses allowed in the underlying zone.

     The applicants requested at the remand hearing that the Board limit its scope of review to
     petitioner’s third sub-assignment of error, in which the petitioner challenged the Board’s
     original decision finding that the subject property was not resource land.

     At the remand hearing, the Board limited the scope of testimony, and in its subsequent
     deliberation and decision, the Board limited its scope of review to considering the additional
     scientific and engineering evidence and expert opinion submitted by the applicants in support
     of the Board’s original decision finding that the subject property (as modified) is not resource
     land, as well as any relevant contradicting testimony and evidence.

     Regarding the criterion YCZO Section 1208.02 (E), an exception to Goal 3 was not required,
     as addressed in Section C of these findings below.
                                                                                   run 84 ise O84

       Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis
IA

       When the applicants originally contacted the Planning staff, staff informed them they would
       need to request an exception to Goal 3, but not to Goal 4. The applicants’ original burden
       of proof and supplemental materials provided substantial evidence addressing the Goal 3
       exception.

       In its original Ordinance 737 decision, the Board found “that the subject property is
       non-resource land, based on the reasons stated in the applicants’ burden of proof..., and
       based on other substantial evidence in the record...” (page 4).

       Opponents, Friends of Yamhill County, filed a LUBA appeal, which resulted in that board’s
       Final Opinion and Order noted above and below.

       LUBA, in its Final Opinion and Order 2004-089, remanding this case back to the Board
       stated on page 14 that:

               “Where a local government demonstrates that property is not agricultural or
               forest land; i.e., not resource land, it may plan and zone that property for
               nonfarm or nonforest use without taking an exception. Niemi v. Clatsop
               County,   6 Or LUBA    147, 152 (1982).    That land is not resource land is
               generally not a reason to take an exception to resource goals; it is generally
               areason that an exception is unnecessary. Therefore, if the county is correct
               in concluding that the subject property is not resource land, an exception
               would not be required.” (Emphasis Added).

And that:
               “Tn order to show that land is not resource land, an applicant must
               demonstrate that it does not qualify as agricultural land or forest lands. See
               Friends of Linn County v. Linn County, 42 Or LUBA 235, 239-40 (2002).
               “Agricultural Land” is defined in Goal 3 as follows:

               ‘Agricultural Land * * * is land of predominantly Class I, Il, I and IV soils
               * * * as identified in the Soil Capability Classification System of the United
               States Soil Conservation Service, and other lands which are suitable for farm
               use taking into consideration soil fertility, suitability for grazing, climatic
               conditions, existing and future availability of water for farm irrigation
               purposes, existing land use patterns, technological and energy inputs
               required, or accepted farming practices. Lands in other classes which are
               necessary to permit farm practices to be undertaken on adjacent or nearby
               lands, shall be included as agricultural land in any event.’
                                                                          cin 84 race O85

“Under that definition, ‘agricultural land’ includes lands composed predominantly of Class
I through IV soils.” (Emphasis Added).

The Board finds that the “Detailed Inventory of Soils on Tax Lot 100" prepared for this
remand request by Certified Soil Scientist Joel A. Norgren, dated December 31, 2005,
(Exhibit B to the applicants’ remand burden of proof), by a site specific analysis establishes
that approximately 60% of the total existing soils possess a soil capability class VI and
above; 85.6% of the total existing soils possess a soil capability class of IV, V and VI; and
only 2.3% have a soil capability class of II; that the subject property consists of 66.3% Low
Value soils and 33.7% High Value Soils; and that the subject property is land of
predominantly soil capability class VI and above; and is land of predominantly Low Value
Soils. Therefore, according to the definitions in Goal 3 and ORS 215.710, the subject
property is not predominantly soil capability class I, I, Ill or VI, and is not predominantly
high value soils, as originally believed prior to the site specific field analysis performed by
Mr. Norgren.

The Board finds that based on Mr. Norgren’s site specific field analysis, as well as
supplemental evidence and expert opinion submitted by the applicants, and based the
following additional findings of fact, the applicants have demonstrated. that the subject
property is not “agricultural land” (i.e., is not resource land), and that a Goal 3 exception is
not required for approval of the plan amendment and zone change:

7       The factual and expert evidence already submitted into the record, consisting of the
applicants’ vineyard consultant’s February 25, 2004 letter from Stirling Fox of Oregon Grape
Management (LUBA Record 156-7), the January 2, 2004 Yamhill Soil and Water
Conservation District letter (LUBA Record 204), as well as the supplemental evidence and
testimony taken together to demonstrate that the property can not be farmed commercially,
nor can a viable farm use be established on the property.

.       The subject property is bordered on the south and east by AF-10 exception land and
is bordered by resource lands to the north and west.

.       The subject property has similar topography (i.e., moderate to steep slopes and
elevations changes) to the existing AF-10 exception land to the west and east. Resource
lands to the north have predominantly different topography, being significantly more gently
sloped and commercially viable.

7       The subject property has similar soils (i.¢., the Jory series and related series) to the
existing AF-10 exception land to the west, east and south. The Jory complex is described
as moderately to severely erodible and severely restricts the farm and forest uses when found
with steep slopes, which restriction is evident in the historic uses of the subject property and
the adjacent AF-10 zoned land.
                                                                          rin 84 we O86

.        The subject property historically and currently contains land uses (i.e. - rural
residential and small scale fallow pastureland and small unmanaged and unstocked
overgrown woodlot area) that are significantly more similar to the existing AF-10 exception
land to the west, south and east, than the resource land uses to the north.

u       There are no existing commercial farm or forest operations on lands immediately
adjacent to the subject property (including resource lands to the north) which would create
conflicts by the addition of the one new proposed rural residential parcel.       Based on the
above-described physical characteristics and location, the subject property cannot be
aggregated with larger and more viable farm and forest uses to the more distant west and
southwest.

.       The subject property has similar natural resources and existing vegetation (i.e.,
seasonal drainage-ways and fallow pastureland and natural uncultivated overgrown areas of
deciduous trees, underbrush, poison oak and native grasses) to the existing AF-10 exception
land to the west,   south and east.    In contrast, the resource   lands to the north contain
significantly more productive and commercially            viable   land   resources,   including
predominantly managed woodlots and farm uses.

.        The subject property, even after approval of only one additional 10.6 acre parcel for
the proposed rural residential use, has similar parcelization and development to the existing
AF-10 exception land to the west, south and east (i.e., average adjacent parcel size of
approximately 10 to 12 acres and rural residential single family homes). Recent 1990's
partitioning and subsequent development of the exception land directly to the south of the
subject property as described above, is more consistent with the proposed parcelization than
the larger resource land parcels to the north and west and southwest.

7        The existence of the City of Newberg’s Spring Water System transmission and
distribution lines, and other utility easements located on the subject property further
significantly restrict the use of the property for anything other than the proposed low impact
rural residential use.

.        The subject property has not been used for “farm use” as defined in ORS 215.203
(2)(a) for a significant period of time, if ever, but certainly for a long period of time before
1974 as can be seen on the 1974 Soil Survey map (Exhibit D, Page 2 of the original burden
of proof) as well as by comparing that map with the current Yamhill County Scale Map
(Exhibit A, Page 6, of the original burden of proof), which comparison shows the
configuration of the cleared areas of the property remaining substantially the same for years,
with the exception of noticeable encroachment of the surrounding native and non-native
plant species on the latter map.
                                                                         FILM 84 nce O87

.       The subject property cannotbe developed into a commercial agricultural or forest use
in the same way that the existing AF-10 exception land to the west, south and east cannot be
developed and was designated AF-10, for all of the above applicable reasons.

.       As well as the other physical factors described herein, the size of the subject property
and lack of water rights on the subject property make it suitable only to rural residential use.

.        The physical configuration and location of the subject property and its access to
Chehalem Drive compliment and complete that portion of the Chehalem Drive rural
residential “neighborhood”. Traveling along Chehalem Drive from Tax Lot 600 north to and
past the subject property demonstrates that the location and orientation of the existing homes
and pasture lands, the location of the access driveways, as well as the existing topographical
and vegetation separation between the subject property and the resource lands to the north,
support the argument that the subject property should be part of the AF-10 rural residential
Chehalem Drive “neighborhood”, not the upper Chehalem Drive resource land neighborhood
near the intersection of Chehalem Drive and Hillside Drive.

7        The County has a demonstrated need for additional and appropriate new rural
residential lands in the northern Newberg area in order to comply with the requirements of
State Goal 10, Housing, as implemented and acknowledged in the County’s Comprehensive
Plan, based on its own exception area growth projections and recent growth patterns, which
show that 100% of the exception land has been developed in the north Newberg area and that
at least 84% of the rural residential lands within 6,100 feet of the Newberg UGB have been
developed, as is documented in the findings of fact above.

7       Approval of this application complies with Oregon’s Resource Land Dwelling Policy
to provide owners of less productive non-resource land the opportunity to create one
additional rural residential parcel while preserving the County’s more productive resource
lands to the north and west.

.        Approval of this application would encourage a proper and appropriate rural
residential use of a parcel of County rural land that is not resource land in a manner
consistent with Oregon’s land use laws which place special emphasis on the preservation and
protection of productive farm and forest lands, while encouraging more intensive farm and
forest uses on all rural lands.

7       The subject property is isolated and unique in that it is the only property in the area
that is the remaining land, including an original homestead, left after a long history of
parcelization, where the properties that were sold were designated AF-10 in 1980. The
original homestead property (the subject property) which appears to have less potential than
the sold properties to the south for any viable farm and forest uses (due to steeper slopes and
worse soils), was designated resource land (EF-20) in 1980.
                                                                                nur 84 nee O88
     Therefore, consistent with LUBA’s remand order and other case law, including LUBA’s
     decision in Friends of Linn County vy. Linn County, 42 Or LUBA 235, 239-40 (2002), the
     applicants have demonstrated that the subject property does not qualify as agricultural land,
     the Board is required to conclude that the subject property is not resource land, and a Goal
     3 exception is not required for approval of the subject application as modified.

     The opponents raised concerns during the remand hearing and in subsequent written
     testimony that the applicants should also be required to take a Goal 4 exception. However,
     the Board finds that the record shows that adequate opportunity was given to the opponents
     to raise the Goal 4 exception issue at the original hearing on March 18, 2004 and as
     continued; that they failed to adequately raise that issue either at that hearing or on appeal
     to LUBA.    The Board has followed the clear and express procedural and substantive
     requirements of the LUBA remand opinion and its own regulations discussed above and
     below, and the opponents cannot now or in a subsequent LUBA appeal raise the Goal 4
     exception issue, assuming that it is even applicable to the subject application, which the
     Board finds it is not. Ploeg v. Tillamook County, 43 Or LUBA 4 (2002).

     The Board notes that the applicants in their original burden of proof addressed forest issues
     anumber of times: for instance, by stating that the commercial forest uses on properties on
     “a small number of larger properties located a greater distance than one-quarter to one-half
     mile to the north of the subject property...”, the difficulties with establishing farm and forest
     uses on the steep and highly erodible Jory soils located on the subject property, as well as the
     farm and forest productivity of the subject property. The applicants also addressed the Goal
     4 issues with scientific evidence and expert opinion in their written response testimony
     following the close of the remand hearing.

     Finally, the Board has historically made land use decisions consistent with its Finding (B)(5)
     in Exhibit A of Ordinance No. 737 that “[S]ince the property is zoned for Exclusive Farm
     use and not for Agricultural/Forestry use, an exception to Goal 4 is not required.

D.   Summary.

     Based on the above findings, the Board concludes that the subject application as modified
     does satisfy all of the applicable criteria, as contained in the applicants’ original burden of
     proof, remand burden of proof, and written response testimony after the close of the remand
     hearing, and in the above findings.

CONCLUSIONS:     Based on all of the evidence in the record, the Board finds that:

1.   The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change from Exclusive Farm
     Use, EF-20 to AF-10.
                                                                                 FILA   84   FACE   089

2.     The proposed Comprehensive Plan amendment             and zone   change     is consistent with
       Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

3:     An exception to Goal 3 is not required because the property is not agricultural land, is
       unsuitable for farming due to soils and slope as well as other factors.

4.     The proposed change is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.02.

&      The proposed change complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

The application is hereby approved.

                                                                                        73.0.08-248
                                                       rin 84 race GOO
               EXHIBIT “B” MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 767
                PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZONE CHANGE ©
    ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                             APRIL 27, 2005
          FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING TO AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY
                       » SMALL HOLDING AND
               TO CHANGE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FROM
                      EF-20 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                  TO
            AF-10 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY      SMALL HOLDING

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOT 3301-100   DESCRIBED ABOVE

APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 400 FEET

                                                           B.0.05-298