BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                  SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Zone change from EF-80,                 )
Exclusive Farm use to AF-80 Agriculture/Forestry,                      )   Ordinance 854
Applicant John Balwit, Tax Lots 5504-100, 200 and 300,                 )
Planning Docket Z-03-09, and Declaring an Emergency                    )

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on March 31, 2010, Commissioners Kathy George, Leslie
Lewis, and Mary P. Stern being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that John Balwit applied for a Zone Change from EF-
80, Exclusive Farm use to AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry for a 397 acre parcel, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at a
duly noticed public hearing on March 4, 2010 and heard from the applicant (there being no
opponents), then voted unanimously to approve the application, NOW, THEREFORE,

          IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved detailed
in Exhibit "A," the Findings for Approval, hereby incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference.
This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County,
and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective immediately.       A map is appended as
Exhibit "B".

          DONE this 31st day of March, 2010, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                whack se
                                            i        J C GO            KATHY GEORGE
                                                    Hoy      a    e

                                                 issioner’             MARY P. STERN

                                                  Mh
                                       Commissioner
                                                                  Wore LESLIE LEWIS
     fu       Gs
Rick Sanaj
Senior Assistant County Counsel

                                                                             B-0. 10-171
                                                                       Ordinance 854 - Balwit
Exhibit "A" - Findings       Ordinance 854
Docket Z-03-09 (Balwit)
Page 2

DOCKET NO.:              2-03-09

REQUEST:                 Zone       change      from     EF-80,        Exclusive    Farm     use     to    AF-80,
                         Agriculture/Forestry.

APPLICANT:               John Balwit

OWNERS:                  John Balwit and Nicholas Kristof

TAX LOTS:                5504-100, 200 and 300

LOCATION:                The majority         of the property       is located east of the intersection of
                         Masonville,         Muddy     Valley    and    Eagle   Point   Roads.     An     area   of
                         approximately 6 acres is located west of this intersection. In addition,
                         approximately 120 acres is located south of Masonville Road.

AREA SIZE:               Approximately 397 acres

CRITERIA:                Sections 402, 403 and 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance;
                         the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies.

FINDINGS:

A. Background Facts

1,     Lot Size: Approximately 397 acres,

2.     Access: The properties border Eagle Point and Masonville Road. The existing access to the
       30 x 45 foot building on the applicant’s property has access to Eagle Point Road.

       On-Site Land Use: Due to the size and expanse of the properties, the area proposed for
       rezoning is diverse. The western and southern ends of the land contain hillsides with uneven
       topography. Near the middle of the area to be rezoned the land is relatively a flat valley floor.
       The use appears to be open fields in the valley with forested areas on the hillsides.

       Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: All of the adjacent area is zoned EF-80, Exclusive Farm
       Use.

       Water: On-site well.

       Sewage Disposal: An on-site subsurface system would be required for any residential use.

       Soils:   Soils   on   the   subject    site includes     Yamhill,   Chehalem,    Steiwer    and    Hazelair.
       Approximately half of the property is high-value farmland.
                                                                                Ordinance 854 - Balwit
                                                                                             Bo-fo-t#!
Exhibit "A" - Findings        Ordinance 854
Docket Z-03-09 (Balwit)
Page 3

         Fire Protection: McMinnville Rural Fire District.

         Taxes: 172 acres is receiving farm deferral. 205.79 acres is receiving forest deferral.

10.      Overlay Zones: Approximately 43 acres near the middle of the valley is within the 100-year
         floodplain.

ll.      Previous Zoning: Prior to December 29, 1993, the property was zoned a mixture of AF-20 and
         EF-40. The EF-40 was located in the valley while the AF-20 was assigned to the forested
         hillsides. On December 29, 1993, the entire area was rezoned to EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use.

B.    Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.       The request complies with the review criteria found in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County
         Zoning Ordinance, as follows:

         Review    Criteria for Amendments              to   or    within   Exclusive    Farm     Use   and
         Agricultural/Forestry Zones

         A quasi-judicial zone change to (1) amend the designation of land from Exclusive Farm Use,
         Agriculture/Forestry, or Forest to another of these zones, or (2) change the minimum lot size
         of land designated Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry, may be authorized, pursuant
         to Subsection 1208.01, provided that the request satisfies all applicable requirements of this
         ordinance, and also provided that the applicant demonstrates compliance with the following
         criteria:

         A,      The proposed amendment shall comply with the goals, policies, and other applicable
                 provisions of the comprehensive plan.

         B.      The proposed designation shall be appropriate for the existing or intended use of the
                 property.

         Cc          The proposed amendment shall result in an area of at least    160 contiguous acres with
                     the requested designation, including adjacent land.

         D.          For proposed changes within or to an Exclusive Farm          Use designation, the new
                     minimum lot size shall be appropriate         to maintain    the existing commercial
                     agricultural enterprise in the area.

         E.          For proposed changes within or to an Agriculture/Forestry designation, the new
                     minimum lot size shall be shown to assure:

                     1.     The opportunity for economically efficient forest and agriculture practices
                            typically occurring in the area; and

                                                                            Ordinance 854 - Balwit
Exhibit "A" - Findings     Ordinance 854
Docket Z-03-09 (Balwit)
Page 4

                2.       The opportunity for the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree
                         species; and

                3.       The conservation of other forest values found on forest lands.

         FB.    Any amendment that would change the zone map designation to reduce the minimum
                lot size on property within an Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry district
                shall not be granted final approval by Yamhill county until the amendment has been
                considered and approved by the Land Conservation and Development Commission
                Pursuant to ORS 215.780(2). The following rules shall apply:

                i.       Conditional approval. Following receipt of an application for a zone change
                         as otherwise provided by this ordinance, the county shall determine whether
                         to grant or deny the application in accordance with criteria established in this
                         section 1208.03. If the application is granted, the county shall enter an order
                         of conditional approval, subject to final approval by the Land Conservation
                         and Development Commission.

                2,       Referral of Order of Conditional Approval. After conditional approval by
                         Yamhill County, the application, county findings, order of conditional
                         approval and a request for Commission action shall be referred to the
                         Depariment of Land Conservation and Development.

                3.        Final Approval. An amendment conditionally approved by Yamhill County
                          shall not take effect until the county adopts an order or ordinance authorizing
                         Jinal approval after receipt of written confirmation of the county’s conditional
                          approval by the Land Conservation and Development Commission.

         The above criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.5 below.

         Regarding criterion (A), applicable goals from the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land Use
         Plan, Section II.A.1, Goal reads:

                To conserve Yamhill County’s farm lands for the production of crops and livestock
                and to ensure that the conversion of farm land to urban use where necessary and
                appropriate occurs in an orderly and economical manner.

         As shown by the deferral status, the property has major portions in both farm and forest use.
         172 acres of the property is in farm deferral and 205.79 acres is in forest deferral. The new
         zone, AF-80, recognizes and allows both types of uses depending on the predominant use on
         the property. This mixed use zoning will more accurately reflect the existing uses on the
         subject property. The applicant is not proposing an urban use; the minimum lot size is to
         remain 80 acres.

         Section I.A.2, Goal reads:

                                                                        Ordinance 854 - Balwit
Exhibit "A" - Findings      Ordinance 854
Docket Z-03-09 (Balwit)
Page 5

                 To conserve Yamhill County's soil resources in a manner reflecting their suitability
                for forestry, agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the
                 purposes designated on the county plan map.

         Section 11.B.1, Goal reads:

                 To conserve and to manage efficiently the county’s forest and range resources, thereby
                 ensuring a sustained yield of forest products, adequate grazing areas for domestic
                 livestock, habitat for fish and wildlife, protection of forest soils and watershed, and
                 preservation of recreational opportunities.

         According to the Yamhill County Soil Survey, approximately half of the subject parcel is
         composed of soils that are classified as high-value farmland. In addition, approximately 2/3
         of the property is capable of growing trees. Most of these soils are on the hillside as the valley
         floor is too wet to sustain timber.   The majority of the area contains soils capable of producing
         over 100 cubic feet of wood fiber per acre per year. The zone change will recognize the farm
         and forestry uses that exist on the land and preserve the County’s soil resources for their
         suitability for farm and forest use.

         Regarding criterion (B), as mentioned above, the subject parcel is a mixture of farm and forest
         use; the zone change from an exclusive farm zone to an agriculture and forestry zone will more
         accurately reflect the current use of the property.

         Regarding criterion (C), the subject area proposed for rezoning is 397 acres, well over the 160-
         acres required, therefore, the request is consistent with criterion (C).

         Regarding criteria (D), (E) and (F), the applicant wishes to keep the minimum lot size at 80
         acres. The 80-acre minimum in the farm and forestry zone was determined by the Oregon
         State Legislature to be appropriate to maintain the commercial farm and forestry industry in
         western Oregon (see HB 3661 passed in 1993).

CONCLUSIONS

1.       The request is for a zone change from EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use to AF-80
         Agriculture/Forestry Use. The total area proposed to be rezoned is approximately 397 acres.

         The zone change is appropriate in that the parcel is a mixture of farm and forestry uses.
         Neither the farm zone, nor the forestry zone alone would be appropriate for this area,

         The request complies with the criteria listed in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning
         Ordinance and is consistent with the applicable goals found in Yamhill County’s
         Comprehensive Plan.

         The proposed designation is appropriate for the existing and intended use of the property.

                                                                           Ordinance 854 - Balwit
Exhibit "A" - Findings Ordinance 854
Docket Z-03-09 (Balwit)
Page 6

DECISION:

Based on the above findings and conclusions, the request by John Balwit for a zone change from EF-
80, Exclusive Farm Use to AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry Use on Tax Lots 5504-100, 200 and 300,
approximately 397 acres, is hereby approved.

MB:kf

                                                                                 B.0.10-1F1
                                                                   Ordinance 854 - Balwit
               EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. _9S7
                            ZONE CHANGE
     ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                             March 31, 2010
                      FOR A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                      EF-80 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                   TO
                '   AF-8O AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY

                                                            ory

                                                          "wee
                                                            tanh,

                                           Vw
                                           i

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOT 5504-100 DESCRIBED AND HIGHLIGHTED A BOVE
                                                                          an 0S
APPROXIMATE   SCALE - 1 INCH = 1450 FEET                            iar           fe
                EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. p34
                             ZONE CHANGE
      ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                              March 31,2010 —
                       FOR A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                       EF-80 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                   TO
                     AF-80 AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY

                                                              400
                                                                2e57. AG.

                         500
                           34828 AG.

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOTS 5504-200 & 300 DESCRIBED AND HIGHLIGHTED ABOVE

APPROXIMATE   SCALE - 1 INCH = 500 FEET                      Onclviow we 4 dar
                                                            Cthhed          ”   vf