rua UG ace Zod                        a
                                                                           99 JAN 14 P4349
             IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending                  )
the Official Yamhill County Zoning Map                  )
from EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use District, to             )
VLDR-2.5, Vety Low Density Residential                  )       ORDINANCE 665
District, and Approving a Floodplain                    )
Development Permit on Tax Lot 5635-300;                 )
Applicant Gerald Cannady; Docket                        )
Z-02-98/FP-05-98; and Declaring an Emergency.           )
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for
the transaction of county business in special session on January 7, 1999, Commissioners Robert
Johnstone, Thomas E. E. Bunn, and Ted Lopuszynski, being present.

THE BOARD MAKES THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:

A. On October 13, 1998, Gerald Cannady filed an application to change the zoning designation from
EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use District, to VLDR-2.5, Very Low Density Residential District, and for
a floodplain development permit to allow construction of a single family residence on a 1.38 acre
parcel known as tax lot 5635-300 in Docket No.Z-02-98/FP-05-98.

B. On December 3, 1998, the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public hearing on
Planning Docket Z-02-98/FP-05-98, and recommended approval of the application with conditions.

C. On January 7, 1999, the Board held a public hearing to consider Docket Z-02-98/FP-05-98, and
at the conclusion of the hearing, the Board voted unanimously to approve the application with
conditions.

D. The Board has determined that adoption of this ordinance will be in the best interest of the citizens
of Yamhill County, Now, Therefore,

THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS                               AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.    The Official Yamhill County Zoning Map is hereby amended to change the zoning
designation from EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use District, to VLDR-2.5, Very Low Density Residential
District, as requested by Gerald Cannady in Docket No.Z-02-98, as provided and specified in the
attached Exhibit "A", which is by this reference made a part of this ordinance.

                                                                                       Ordinance 665
                                                                                               Page 1°
                                                                                     BO.   94-76
                                                                                     O G v ee 252
                                                                                 cur
Section 2 The application by Gerald Cannady in Docket FP-05-98 for a floodplain development
permit to allow construction ofa single family residence on tax lot 5635-300 is hereby approved with
the following conditions:

        1.     The structures shall comply with the standards listed in Section 901.07(B) and (C) of
               the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

                The applicant shall provide certification by a registered professional engineer or
                architect that Condition number 1 is satisfied, based on their review of the structural
                design, specifications and plans prior to construction.

               Removal of existing woody vegetation shall be minimal.

               The lowest floor level must be at minimum one (1) foot above the base flood
               elevation. (A flood elevation certificate shall be submitted to certify the elevation of
               the structure.)

                The applicant shall obtain proper building permits from Yamhill County.

                The applicant shail obtain proper permits from Oregon Department of Transportation
                for access to West Valley Hwy (Hwy 18 - Business Loop).

                The applicant shall obtain proper permits from Oregon Division of State Lands for
                easement or license, lease, or registration for the use of State designated wetland area.

Section 3       Severability Clause. If any section or subsection contained in this ordinance is found
to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this ordinance
shall continue in full force and effect unless those parts, standing alone, are incapable of being
executed in accordance with legislative intent.

Section 4.      This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

Mt
iff

                                                                                         Ordinance 625
                                                                                                 Page 2
                                                                    FILA   06     PACE   £03

DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 7th day of January, 1999.

                                      YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                      Chairman        (HoBERT JOHNSTONE

                                         TH hes vig     CL,   Bore
                                      Commissioner       THOMAS   E.E. BUNN

FORM APPROVED BY:

2                vot                    “L             QALY
JOHN C. PINKSTAFF //                  Contmissioner    (TED LOBUSZYNSKI
Assistant County Counsel

F: \ADMIN\PINKSTJ\LU\2-2-98    .WPD

                                                                              Ordinance 625
                                                                                      Page 3
                                                                                                 er
                                                                                                 TS
                                        ORDINANCE 665

                                                                                     i
                                          EXHIBIT "A"

PLANNING COMMISSION'S APPROVAL:                               December 3 1998

BOARD OF COMMISSIONER'S APPROVAL:                             January 7, 1999

DOCKET NO.:           Z-02-98/FP-05-98

REQUEST:              Zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use District, to VLDR-2.5, Very
                      Low Density Residential District, and approval of a floodplain development
                      permit to allow construction of a single family residence on the property.

APPLICANT:             Gerald Cannady

OWNER:                Gerald, Mary and Terry Cannady, Ora and Katie Garver

 TAX LOT:              5635-300

LOCATION:             Between West Valley Highway (Hwy 18 - Business Loop) and the Yamhill
                      River, on the east side of Sheridan within the Urban Growth Boundary.

_ LOT SIZE:            1.38 acres

_CRITERIA:            Sections 502, 901 and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance; the
                      Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan.
FINDINGS:

A. Background Facts

 1,    Parcel Size: 1.38 Acres,

 2.    Access: The parcels has frontage on West Valley Hwy (Hwy 18 - Business Loop).

       On-Site Land Use: The property includes an upland area located adjacent to the highway with
       a steep embankment sloping toward the river. A majority of the parcel is located within the
       identified 100-year flood plain of South Yamhill River. The property is undeveloped but
       contains the City of Sheridan's sewer trunk line which connects the north part of the city with
       the sewage treatment pump station, and sewer lagoons, on the south side of the river. The
       property is located within Yamhill County and is zoned Exclusive Farm Use (EF-80). On
       August 25, 1998 the County and the Sheridan City Council approved an Urban Growth
       Boundary amendment for the parcel which changed the comprehensive plan designation to

                                                                                   Exhibit “A” - Page 1
                                                                                        Ordinance 665
                                                                                  gee           opr
                                                                             rie OO ice BOO
      residential.

       Surrounding Land Use:    To the west are four small parcels, each containing a single family
      home. To the north is an approximate 13-acre parcel containing a single family home and
      accessory structure. To the east is a narrow, undeveloped parcel also located between the
      highway and the river. The South Yamhill River lies to the south.

       Surrounding Zoning:     All land directly adjacent to the property is within the County and
      zoned EF-80.

      Soils: The small size of the parcel and the small scale of soils maps makes it difficult to
      classify the soils. However, the parcel appears to be made up of Stoney Land (SL) on the
      terrace adjacent to the highway and Chehalem (CeC) soil on the sloping river bank.

      Water: The application indicates that the lot will be served by city water. There appears to
      be an agreement between the city and the applicant that his property will be connected to the
      city water.

      Sewage Disposal: The application indicates that there is no septic system on the parcel.
      There seems to be an agreement between the city and the applicant that his property will be
      connected to the city sewer.

      Fire Protection: The parcel is served by the Sheridan Fire District.

10.   Previous Actions: An approval by the City Council and the County Board Of Commissioners
      to amend the comprehensive plan map to expand the UGB and establish the "Residential".
      designation on the City's Comprehensive Plan, and taking an exception to Statewide Goal 3.
      County Docket PAZ-04-98/City Docket 98-05-13.

il.   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) No. 410249-0432C indicates the subject parcel is within
      the 100-year floodplain of South Yamhill River. The base flood elevation is between 187' and
      188'. The applicant did not submitted a report from a professional surveyor or engineer
      regarding the elevation of the proposed dwelling or any calculations regarding possibility of
      floodwater being elevated by the structure.

B._ Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.    A request for a quasi-judicial zone map change must comply with the standards and criteria
      in Section 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance (YCZO), as follows:

       (A)     That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
               applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

      (B)      That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
               requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the

                                                                                Exhibit “A” - Page 2
                                                                                        Ordinance 665
                                                                                 FILR   bo    PACE   256

              economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
              the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
              allowed by the zone.

      (C)     That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
              density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
              occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
              utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
             district.                      .

      (D)   — That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are either
              unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
              other factors.

      (E)   — That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
              exceptions, if applicable.

      The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 1208.02(A).

2.1   The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan policies that may arguably be applicable include:

              Policy (c) of Goal LA.1: Yamhill County will recognize the lands within established
              urban growth boundaries as the appropriate and desired location for urban
              development.

      The Board finds that Policy ¢ of Goal I.A.1 is aspirational only and does not constitute a
      mandatory approval criteria. The policy has already been implemented through the adoption
      of the zoning ordinance, including the adoption of the urban growth boundary which includes
      the subject property. And even if the policy applied, the Board finds that it is satisfied. The
      parcel is 1.3.acres, which may be considered to be an urban scale of development. Since Tax
      Lot 5635-300 is inside the urban growth boundary of Sheridan, the scale of the proposed
      zone change complies with this policy. The zoning designation of VLDR-2.5, would be
      consistent with the adjacent properties to the south, which are also zoned VLDR-2.5.

              Policy b. of Goal LA.1: Yamhill County will seek to establish a general commitment
              by all providers of urban services that no subdivision of lands in designated urban
              areas on the Pian Map will be permitted without the provision of urban services
              commensurate with the location, nature and scale of the proposed development,
              recognizing the overall capital program for community services and the ultimate net
              cost to the community of the services to be provided.

      The Board finds that Policy b of Goal L.A.1 is aspirational only and does not constitute a
      mandatory approval criteria. The policy is implemented through the adoption of the zoning
      ordinance. And even if this policy could be directly applied, the Board finds that it would not
      be applied in this case because only one residence will be placed on the parcel, and there is

                                                                                   Exhibit “A” - Page 3
                                                                                         Ordinance 665
                                                                         cin OG vce 237
no plan for subdividing of the parcel. Furthermore, even if the policy applied, the Board finds
that it is satisfied because the city has agreed to provide city services to the parcel.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 1208.02(B). Criterion (B), requires a
finding that there is an existing demonstrable need for the use that would be allowed by the
zone change, which in this case is additional residential lot. The Board finds that this proposal
will create or promote one additional residential development which will ensure the City
control over those facilities necessary to support urban uses. This property contains an
especially critical component of the City's sanitary sewer system as this is the point where the
sewage from the north side of the City is transported, beneath the river, to the pumping
station and sewer lagoons.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 1208.02(C). Regarding criterion (C),
the surrounding area is residential in character and there are no known agricultural activities
on adjacent properties, and based on the topographic and soil conditions, the adjacent land
is not well suited for agriculture. Since the subject parcel would remain zoned for residential
use, there would be no conflicts with surrounding uses. The proposed 1.3-acre lot size is
consistent with the surrounding parcel sizes, which vary from .37 acres to almost 5 acres in
size.   With no change in the land use or pattern, potential adjacent, or nearby, agricultural
activities will be unaffected by this proposal. Half of the parcel is a steep riverbank which is
unsuitable for farming. The tax lot is on a narrow strip of land between the West Valley
Highway and the Yamhill River. To the west are four small residential lots lying between Tax
Lot 300 and the City limits. The county originally suggested the city include these parcels in
the previous UGB Amendment; however, the city staff rejected this option as two of the
property owners were opposed to being included in the amendment. The parcel to the east
is an even narrower strip of land between the road and the river. Lands on the south side of
the river are in both the city and the county and are zoned (or designated) for residential use.
The remainder of the parcel is less than 100 feet wide, and contains a sewer trunk line and
three manholes. The parcel is also adjacent to a highly traveled road (West Valley Highway)
which serves as a physical barrier between Tax Lot 300 and a larger farm parcel to the north,
across Highway 18-B. These physical developments make Tax Lot 300 unavailable for
farming.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 1208.02(D). Criterion (D) requires an
analysis of whether other residentially zoned lands are either unavailable or not as well suited
for the development. The Board finds that this analysis should be limited to VLDR-2.5 zoned
lands in the Sheridan area. The Board finds that there is a very limited amount of vacant
VLDR-Z.5 zoned lands in the Sheridan area. The inventory of Sheridan area indicates that
there are total of 13 parcels currently zoned VLDR-2.5. One of these is of sufficient size to
make one additional parcel which would    be a total of 14 parcels.   Of these, seven parcels are
currently vacant. However, the subject parcel has a unique situation having the city’s sewer
line on the parcel.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 1208.02(E), Regarding criterion (E), the
parcel is an exception area, so Goals 3 and 4 do not apply and since the parcel is already

                                                                              Exhibit “A” - Page 4
                                                                                   Ordinance 665
                                                                                  rite   66      “AGE   £o8

         within the urban growth boundary Goal 14 does not apply.               No other Goals apply to this
         request, and no exception is required.

C,___   Floodplain Ordinance Provisions and_Analysis

1.       Developments in the Floodplain Overlay zone are subject to the requirements of Section 901
         of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance (YCZO). Prior to issuance of a floodplain
         development permit, the applicant must demonstrate that:

        A,      The proposed development conforms with the use provisions,                      standards and
                limitations of the underlying zoning district and other overlay district.

        B.      the proposed development, if located within the floodway, satisfies the provisions
                of Subsection 901.09.

                the proposed development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base
                flood more than one (1) foot at any point.

                All applicable permits            have   been   obtained from     Federal,     State or Local
                governmental agencies, and all applicable National Flood Insurance Program
                requirements have been satisfied.

                The proposed development is consistent with policies j. and k. of the Comprehensive
                Plan, as amended by Ordinance 471.

                YCCP Section II(C)(1) policies j and k provide as follows:

               ij       It is the policy of Yamhill County to protect riparian vegetation from damage
                       that may result from land use applications for development that is otherwise
                       permitted outright or conditionally under county zoning regulations. To
                       achieve this goal, Yamhill County will review land use applications for
                        development in riparian areas in an effort to mitigate or prevent damage to
                        riparian vegetation that might result from the development. For purposes of
                        this policy, “riparian areas" refers to areas within 100 feet measured
                        horizontally from the ordinary high water line of streams identified as "Fish
                        Habitat"     in     the   comprehensive     plan   inventory     (National      Resource
                        Conservation Plan, Yamhill County, Oregon, May 1979 - USDA - Soil
                        Conservation Services), that are not regulated under the Forest Practices
                       Act.(Ord 471)

                k.     It is county policy that land use management practices and nonstructural
                       solutions to problems of erosion and flooding are preferred to structural
                        solutions.        Water erosion control structures, including rip-rap and fill,
                        should be reviewed by the appropriate state permitting authority to insure
                        that they are necessary, are designed to incorporate vegetation where pos-

                                                                                             Exhibit “A” - Page 5
                                                                                                   Ordinance 665
                                                                              cy
                                                                       au     OG ue . BE.
                                                                                      209

                 sible, and designed to minimize adverse impacts on water currents, erosion
                 and accretion patterns.

Each of these criteria are considered, respectively, in Findings C.2 through C.6, below.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO Section 901(A). The request is for
placement of a dwelling in VLDR- 2% zone. The use is permitted in this zoning district.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO       Section 901(B).    There is no plan to
build the proposed structure in the floodway.

The Board finds that it is feasible to satisfy YCZO Section 901(C) and that a condition will
be imposed to assure compliance with this requirement. The applicant will be required to
submit a letter or calculations from a registered professional engineer or architect stating that
the proposal will not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge, and this requirement has been imposed as a condition of approval.

The Board finds that it is feasible to satisfy YCZO Section 901{D) and that a condition will
be imposed to assure compliance with this requirement. The applicant will be required to
obtain all necessary permits prior to construction, and this requirement has been imposed as
a condition of approval.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO Section 901(E). The South Yamhill
River is shown on the Comprehensive Plan map as being fish habitat for anadromous fish and
resident trout spawning and rearing. The applicant indicated that proposed residence will be
located more than 100 feet from the edge of the river’s edge. Consequently, the request
complies with the Plan policies. However, as a precaution, a condition of approval will
require that there be no placement of fill or disturbance to existing vegetation within the 100-
foot riparian area.

Section 901.07(A, B, C & D) provides general standards relevant to the placement of
residential structures.    These standards are:

A,      Manufactured Homes.

        i.      Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with subsection
                 901.07 B.

B.      Anchoring.

        L.      All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
                prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure. Except in
                the case of a manufactured home, elevation of a structure on fill above the
                 base flood level shall be considered to satisfy the anchoring requirement.

                                                                             Exhibit “A” ~ Page 6
                                                                                   Ordinance 665
                                                             rie DO oe          £60

      All manufactured homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or
      lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground
      anchors, subject to the following specifications:

       a.     Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each corner of the manufa-
              ctured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
              points, or with one (1) additional tie per side for manufactured homes
              less than fifty (50) feet in length.

       b.     Frame ties shail be provide at each corner of the manufactured
              home, with five (5) additional ties per side at intermediate points, or
               with four (4) additional ties per side for manufactured home less than
              Jifty 60) feet in length.

       c.     All components      of the anchoring system shall be capable          of
              withstanding a force of 4,800 pounds per square inch.

      d.      Any structure appurtenant to the manufactured home shall be
              similarly anchored.

Construction Materials Methods and Certification.

i.     All new construction and substantial improvements to existing structures
       shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
       damage.

       All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
       using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.

       Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment
       and other service facilities shall be designed and/or otherwise elevated or
       located so as to prevent.water from entering or accumulating within the
       components during conditions of flooding.

       All new construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas
       below the floor and subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
       equalize the hydrostatic forces to exterior walls by allowing entry and exit of
      floodwaters. A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
       than one square inch for every square foot of floor area subject to the
      flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
       than one foot above grade, and may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
       other devices that automatically permit entry and exit of floodwaters.

       All nonresidential construction shall include certification by a registered
       professional engineer or architect that the standards of this subsection are

                                                                  Exhibit “A” - Page 7
                                                                        Ordinance 665
                                                                  riLé   DG         TAGE      2o1

                 satisfied based on their development and/or review of the structural design,
                 specifications and plans.

Dd.     Utilities and Services.

        i        All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
                 or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.

        2.       New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed and located
                  to minimize or eliminate flood water infiltration and contamination resulting
                 Jrom discharge of effluent consistent with the requirements of the State
                 Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ).

        3.       On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them °
                 or contamination from them during flooding.

The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 901.07 as follows. The building will not
be in the floodway. The first finished floor will be required to be'a minimum of one foot
above the base flood elevation. Prior to and during construction or placement of the
residence,    the applicant will be required to meet all standards in YCZO Section 901.07 A,
B, C and D and the Uniform Building Code. The height of the building and specifically the
elevation of the first finished floor will be at the minimum amount required to elevate the
livable space to be above the BFE, which conformsto the standards in (F). Compliance with
all standards will be made conditions of approval.

Section 901.08 contains specific standards for areas where the base flood elevation (BFE) has
been determined. The BFE at the subject property is between 187' and 188' as depicted on
FIRM map. The standards are:

(A)     For any new residential construction and substantial improvement of any residential
        structure, the lowest floor level shall be one foot above the base flood elevation.
        New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or
        other nonresidential structures and accompanying utility and sanitary facilities shall
       either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base
       flood elevation or be subject to the following:                    .

        (D       Be floodproofed so that all portions of the structure below the base flood
                 level are watertight, with walls that are substantially impermeable to the
                 passage of water.

      _ (2)      Have structural components capable of            resisting        hydrostatic      and
                 hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.

(B)     For the placement of a manufactured home the lowest floor level shall be one foot
        above the base flood elevation, and the above basement provisions shall be satisfied,

                                                                                  Exhibit “A” - Page 8
                                                                              .            Ordinance 665
                                                                                 rue UG ace 282

              if applicable.   In addition, the mobile home must be elevated on a permanent
              foundation.

10.    The Board finds that the application satisfies YCZO 901.08 as follows. The lowest finished
       floor of the dwelling will be required to be at an elevation of 189 feet, which meets the
       requirement of being one foot. above the BFE. No basement is proposed.

CONCLUSIONS        FOR APPROVAL:

1.     The request is for a zone change from EF-80 to VLDR-2.5 and for placement of a dwelling
       in the 100-year floodplain of South Yamhill River.

2.     The zone change request complies with the applicable provisions of the Yamhill County
       Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies, is consistent with the County’s Plan Map designation
       of Future Urbanizable Lands, and satisfies the requirements for a zone change under YCZO
       1208.02.

3.     The request is consistent. with the purpose of the floodplain overlay district, and, with
       conditions, satisfies the requirements of YCZO sections 901.06, 901.07 and 901.08.

DECISION:

Based on the above findings, analysis, and conclusions, the Board approves the request by Gerald
Catmady for a zone change from EF-80 to VLDR-2.5, and for placement of a dwelling in the 100-
year floodplain of South Yamhill River on Tax Lot 5635-300, subject to the following conditions:

       1.     The structures shall comply with the standards listed in Section 901 .07(B) and (C) of °
              the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

       2.     The applicant shall provide certification by a registered professional engineer or
               architect that Condition number 1 is satisfied, based on their review of the structural
               design, specifications and plans prior to construction.

       3,     Removal of existing woody vegetation shall be minimal.

       4,     The lowest floor level must be at minimum one (1) foot above the base flood
              elevation. (A flood elevation certificate shail be submitted to certify the elevation of
              the structure.)

       5.      The applicant shall obtain proper building permits from Yamhill County.

       6.     The applicant shall obtain proper permits from Oregon Department of Transportation
              for access to West Valley Hwy (Hwy 18 - Business Loop).

                                                                                   Exhibit “A” - Page 9
                                                                                         Ordinance 665
                                                                        aux OB ace 263
     7.    The applicant shall obtain proper permits from Oregon Division of State Lands for
           easement or license, lease, or registration for the use of State designated wetland area.

F:\ADMIN\PINKSTNLU\Z-2-98F.WPD

                                                                                 Exhibit “A” - Page 10
                                                                                        Ordinance 665
                           FO R
                             “B”  OR  DI NA NC E No. 665
          EXHIBIT
                                            T FROM
              ZONING MAP AMENDMEN
                                             RM ZONE
                FE-80, EXCLUSIVE FA
                                  TO
               .5 ,  VE RY  LO  W    DE NS ITY RESIDENTIAL
       VL DR-2

                                                            ORDINANCE 665
                                                             EXHIBIT “B”
                                                  TA
|           =      ne                        9   08:30:24
“ADGN\DO CK ET S\ Z2 98EXHB.DGN Jan. 07, 199