FILK og a 1649

           IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATEv OFMANOREGON.
                                                              CO PS Git
                                                                        | i4

                            FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

              SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION                   OF COUNTY    BUSINESS      —

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the

                                                       Sw
Yamhill County Zoning Map to Change, on

                                                 ewww
Tax Lot 3324-7600, the Zoning Map

                                                    SS
Designation From AF-10 (Agriculture/Forestry                   ORDINANCE 604
Small Holding) to VLDR-2.5 (Very Low
Density Residential/2.5 Acre Minimum Lot
Size); Planning Docket Z-1-96; Applicant
Gale L. Miller; and Declaring an Emergency.

       THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business in special session on March 20, 1996 Commissioners
Robert Johnstone, Thomas E. E. Bunn, and Dennis L. Goecks, being present.

        WHEREAS, on January 18, 1996, Gale L. Miller ("Applicant") applied to the
Department of Planning and Development: for a zone map amendment from AF-10 (Agricul-
ture/Forestry Small Holding) to VLDR-2.5 (Very Low Density Residential/2.5 acre minimum
lot size) on a 8.6 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 3324-7600,       identified on the attached Exhibit
"B"; and

       WHEREAS, on March 7, 1996 the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public
hearing to consider the application and thereafter voted unanimously to approve the requested
zone change; and

       WHEREAS,     on March 20, 1996, the Board held a public hearing on the application and
voted unanimously to implement the Planning Commission approval of the zone change
application by amending the Official Zoning Map from AF-10 to VLDR-2.5 (Very Low Density
Residential/2.5 acre minimum lot size) on the subject parcel; and

        WHEREAS, the attached Exhibit "A" demonstrates that the proposed amendment to the
Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is in the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill
County; NOW THEREFORE,

       THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS as follows:

       Section 1. The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended to reflect a
zoning designation of VLDR-2.5 on the 8 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 3324-7600 identified
on Exhibit "B".                                                                                       .
                                                                                                      Mey...
                                                                                    G6-/92
                                                                                   ORDINANCE 604
                                                                                              Page 1
                                                                                      rus OF e150
        Section 2.                    The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference
 are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

          Section 3. This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
 citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon
 passage.

        DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 20th day of March,                        1996.

         th” yOARO              Oe"
                                                    YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                        Cha  t  Qohwstine
                                                    Chairman   'é, ROBERT JOHNSTONE
         ny        ATE of ont                          _—_

 By:Deputyyaa        a
           CAROL ANN WHITE                          Commissioner          THOMAS       E. E. BUNN

 FORM APERoyD BY:                                        gL                           [a            -_
Yoo Bile      Zé
                                                                Bene “He,      é

“JOHN C. PINKSTAFF                                  Commissioner          DENNIS L. GOECKS
 Assistant County Counsel

 H: \ADMIN\PINKSTJ\LU\
                  96.071

                                                                                                ORDINANCE 604
                                                                                                        Page 2
                                                                          FILM      59    nce    654
                                        EXHIBIT "A"
                                        Ordinance 604

PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL:                  March 7, 1996

ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                            March 20, 1996

DOCKET:             Z-1-96.

REQUEST:            Zone change from AF-10, Agriculture Forestry Small Holding to VLDR-
                    2.5, Very Low Density Residential, 2.5 acres minimum lot size.

APPLICANT:          Gale L. Miller.

TAX LOT:            3324-7600.

LOCATION:           23655 NE Dayton Avenue, between Newberg           and Dundee, just south of
                    Highway 99W.

LOT SIZE:           8 acres.

COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN DESIGNATION:              _VLDR, Very Low Density Residential.

FINDINGS:

A.   Background Facts.

1s   Access:   Dayton Avenue.

De   On-Site Land Use: The parcel is level and primarily in pasture or grass.            There is a
     residence and pole barn on the southern portion of the property.

3:   Surrounding Land Use: The surrounding area is primarily residential in character, with
     some small-scale farm uses. There are houses on all the adjacent lots. The area south
      of Dayton Avenue,   across from the subject parcel, has been developed into subdivision
     lots with an average lot size of 2.5 acres. Parcels on the north side of Dayton Avenue
     are generally larger, ranging from approximately 4 to 12 acres in size.

4.    Surrounding Zoning: Land to the north and east is zoned AF-10.       Land to the west and
      south is zoned VLDR-2.5.

5,   Water: A community water system (Dayton Avenue Water Line) serves the existing
     residence on the parcel. No information has been provided as to whether additional
     hook-ups are available.   There is an additional community water system (Hidden

                                                                                 Exhibit "A" - Page 1
                                                                                        Ordinance 604
                                                                         FILM   og     race 1652
       Meadows Water District) serving the subdivisions to the south, but conditional use
       approval would be required to extend water lines from this system to the subject parcel.

       Sewage Disposal: The property was denied for a standard septic system, and a capping
       fill system was installed to serve the existing dwelling. The Sanitarian has indicated that
       there is a high seasonal water table in the area.     This could limit the type of septic
       system that could be used or even prevent installation of any septic system.

       Previous Actions: Docket PV-503-79 approved a single family residence on the parcel.
       In 1992 approval was granted to temporarily place a mobile home on the property for the
       care of a relative with a health hardship. The mobile home has since been removed from
       the property.

B.     Ordinance Provisions and Analysis.

1.     The request must comply with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County Zoning
Ordinance (YCZO) Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

       "A.    That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and
              any other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       "B.    That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses
              allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such
              uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing
              market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability
              and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
              uses allowed by the zone.

       "C.    That the proposed change is appropriate considering the sur-
              rounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the
              area, any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity to
              support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities
              and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the
              proposed district.

       "D.    That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed
              use are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated
              uses due to location, size, or other factors.

       "E.    That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Ad-
              ministrative Rules for exceptions, if applicable."

       These criteria are addressed, respectively, in Findings B.2 through B.6, below.

                                                                                Exhibit "A" - Page 2
                                                                                      Ordinance 604
                                                                                     FILM     09    ace1653
      2.      The Board finds that YCZO Section 1208.02A is satisfied. A zone change to VLDR is
      consistent with the Comprehensive Plan designation of VLDR. Comprehensive Plan policy (a)
      of Goal I.B.2 states:

               "Yamhill County will continue to recognize that the appropriate location of very
              low density residential development is in designated large areas where commit-
              ments to such uses have already been made through existing subdivision,
              partitioning, or development and by virtue of close proximity to existing urban
              centers; ...".

             The subject property complies with this policy because it is part of a large exception area
      zoned for residential use located between and in close proximity to Newberg and Dundee. The
      area is committed to residential use and there are a number of subdivisions in the immediate
      vicinity.

      3.          The Board finds that YCZO     Section 1208.02B is satisfied because there is an existing
      demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the requested zone, considering the
      importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market demand
      which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their
      suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

             The subject parcel is part of an exception area located between Newberg and Dundee
      (Exception area 1.8). The following table shows the zoning designation, the total number of lots
      within the exception area, and the number             of lots that were developed     and vacant as of
      December 31, 1995:

                                                     # of         built     vacant
                                 Zone                lots         lots       lots
                                 AF-10                64            44       20
                                 VLDR-5                5             4         1
                                 VLDR-2.5             337          274       63
                                 VLDR-1               138          105       33
                                 Total                544          427       117

        This analysis shows that 78% of the existing lots within the exception area are already developed.
81% of the lots that are zoned VLDR-2.5 are developed. (However, it should be noted that several lots in
the exception area are large enough to be partitioned, so the supply of vacant lots is potentially higher. If
the exception area were to be subdivided to maximum density, there would be 260 total additional lots,
including 75 zoned VLDR-2.5.             Since there is no way to predict when or if these larger lots will be
partitioned, the potential for new lots will not be considered in this analysis of availability and need.)

                                                                                            Exhibit "A" - Page 3
                                                                                                   Ordinance 604
                                                                                    FILK     og     PACE 1654
           Information is also available to show the increase in development since 1981, when 63%          of the lots
zoned VLDR-2.5 were developed. There was no change in the percentage of developed lots in 1986. By
1990, 68% of the lots were developed. This information shows that rural residential growth was relatively
slow throughout the 1980’s, but has increased substantially from 1990 to 1995 (from 68% developed to 81%
developed).     The increase in the rate and amount of development, combined with the relatively small number
of existing vacant lots might indicate a need for additional VLDR zoned lots in this area.

         No information has been provided by the applicant to indicate the existing market demand or
availability of VLDR-2.5 zoned properties in the area. In order to get an idea of availability of lots, staff
reviewed     Tax Assessor records for the Wilderness     Canyon,   Glen Hollow   Estates, and Hidden Meadows
subdivisions which are located on the south side of Dayton Avenue, just to the east of the subject parcel.
Records show that 49 of the 57 subdivision lots have been sold to private parties. (The remaining 8 lots
are owned by development companies or building companies.) Two of the subdivisions were approved in
1991, the third, Glen Hollow Estates, did not receive final approval until June,      1995.       Nine of the 13 lots
in Glen Hollow Estates have already been sold to private parties. This would tend to indicate that there is
a fairly substantial market demand for VLDR lots in the area, as well as illustrating that few lots are
available for sale.

        The subject parcel is as well suited for residential development as the other available lots in the area.
Issues related to suitability will be discussed further in Finding B.5.

4.      The Board finds that YCZO Section 1208.02C is satisfied because the proposed change is appropriate
considering the surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes
which may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities
and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

           The proposed zone change is appropriate because adjacent zoning is VLDR-2.5, and the majority of
these lots have already been developed with residences.      There are no commercial farm or forest uses in the
vicinity that would be impacted by the additional two residential lots that could be created if the zone change
is approved.

       Changes which have occurred in the vicinity which support the request include the approval, sale and
development of the three subdivisions on the south side of Dayton Avenue, as indicated in the previous
finding.     Usual services such as fire and police protection, schools, telephone and electricity are available
to the site. Community water systems serve most of the subdivision lots, and there is water service along
Dayton Avenue, and therefore the Board finds that there is water currently available to serve the two
additional lots that could be created if this zone change is approved, or the feasibility of individual wells to
serve the lots. The Sanitarian has expressed reservations about whether septic systems will be approved on
the partitioned lots. In the event septic systems are not allowed, the applicants would not be able to get
building permits to develop the lots.

3:      The Board finds that YCZO Section 1208.02D is satisfied because other lands in the county already
designated for the proposed use are either unavailable or are not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due
to location, size, or other factors.

                                                                                           Exhibit "A" - Page 4
                                                                                                  Ordinance 604
                                                                                                FILN      og     ace 1655

         The Board finds that other VLDR designated land is either unavailable or not as well suited for
residential development. As indicated in Finding B.3, only 19% of the existing lots in exception area 1.8
which are zoned VLDR-2.5 are currently vacant, the availability of lots appears to be low, and market
demand appears to be fairly high. A few of the vacant lots in the vicinity have some limitations on
development because of slopes and flood hazards. Other lots, especially along Highway 99W, are somewhat
limited for development because there is no local road access (the subject parcel has adequate access from
Dayton Avenue). Except for the question of water and septic, as discussed in Finding B.4, the subject
parcel does not appear to be any less suitable for residential development than any of the other available lots
in the area.

6.      The Board finds that YCZO Section 1208.02E is satisfied. The AF-10 and VLDR zones are not
subject to Goals 3 and 4. The proposed 2.5 acre minimum lot size is not considered to be an urban scale
of development, so Goal 14 does not apply. No other Goals apply to this request, and no exception is
required.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.    The request is for a zone change from AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to VLDR-2.5 Very
Low Density Residential for an eight acre parcel.

2.    The request complies with the Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies and is consistent with the Plan
map designation of VLDR, and therefore complies with YCZO Section 1208.02A.

Br      The majority of properties zoned VLDR-2.5 in the area are already developed with residences, and
there appears to be a market demand for new lots.

4.           There is some concern about whether water and sewage disposal would be available to serve the two
additional lots that could be created if the zone change is approved.                    However, these concerns can be
adequately addressed through conditions when an application is made to partition the property.

3.           The       requested   use   complies   with the quasi-judicial   zone   change   standards     in YCZO      Sections
1208.02B through E.

DECISION:

Based on the above findings, analysis, and conclusions, the request by Gale L. Miller for a zone change
from AF-10 to VLDR-2.5 on Tax Lot 3324-7600, is hereby approved.

F:Z\Z-1-96.SR
H:\admin\pinkstj\lu\96.072

                                                                                                       Exhibit "A" - Page 5
                                                                                                               Ordinance 604
                                                        rin OF mor1 B56
     EXHIBIT        "B" FOR ORDINANCE                   No. 604
                   ZONING MAP AMENDMENT
              TO CHANGE THE DESIGNATION FROM
       "AF-10" AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY SMALL HOLDING
        TO "VLDR-2.5" VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL

                                                              NOT TO SCALE

                           AREA SUBJECT TO ZONE MAP         AMENDMENT
                           TAX LOT 3324-7600

PREPARED   BY YAMHILL   COUNTY   DEPARTMENT   OF PLANNING   AND   DEVELOPMENT

                                                              ORDINANCE         604
                                                              Exhibit "B"