BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                 FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                    SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Zone Change from AF-80                   )
Agriculture/Forestry, to F-80 Forestry, Applicant Old Elk               )    Ordinance 856
Mountain Tree Farm LLC, Tax Lot 5725-1000, Planning                     )
Docket Z-03-10, and Declaring an Emergency                              }

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on July 21, 2010, Commissioners Kathy George, Leslie
Lewis, and-Mary-P--Sterm being present.

           IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Old Elk Mt. Tree Farm, LLC                  applied for a Zone
Change from AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry to F-80, Forestry, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at a
duly noticed public hearing on July 1, 2010 and heard from the applicant (there being no opponents),
then voted unanimously to approve the application, NOW, THEREFORE,

          IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved detailed
in Exhibit "A," the Findings for Approval, hereby incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference.
This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County,
and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective immediately.         A map is appended as
Exhibit "B".

           DONE this 21st day of July, 2010, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

County Clerk                Pe                          J      OQ -     KATHY GEORGE

      ‘                                          Unavailable for signature

       Ai
Deputy Anne Britt                      Aoufimissioner                   MARY P. STERN

APPROVED AS TO FORM:                   Ze oe            a   Ube:ae
    Vi          2       y                 mmissioner                    LESLIE LEWIS

Rick Sanai
Senior Assistant County Counsel
                                                                                     €.o0.l0-48s5
                                                            Ordinance 856 - Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm LLC
Findings   - Docket Z-03-10 (Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm, LLC)
Page 2

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

DOCKET NO.:             Z-03-10

REQUEST:                Zone change from AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry to F-80, Forestry.

APPLICANT:              Old Elk Mt. Tree Farm, LLC

TAX LOT:                5725-1000

LOCATION:               East of the intersection of Willamina Creek Road and Tindle Creek Road

AREA SIZE:              The entire parcel is 415.3 acres. The area proposed to be rezoned is
                         approximately 300 acres.

CRITERIA:               Sections 401, 403 and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance; the
                        Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies.

FINDINGS:

A, Background Facts

1.       Lot Size: Approximately 415.3 acres.

2.       Access: The parcel has frontage on Willamina Creek Road.

3.       On-Site Land Use: The application states the parcel is currently in forest use with some areas
         that are open fields. The application contains a detailed description of the previous forest
         operations. The parcel contains one single family dwelling.

4,       Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: The surrounding area to the south and west is zoned AF-
         10, Agriculture/Forestry, and the property to the north and east is zoned F-80, Forestry and
         AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry. The surrounding area is primarily forested with some rural
         residences. The area parcel sizes range from approximately 10 to 100 acres.

5.       Water: Grand Ronde Water District.

6.       Sewage Disposal: Existing septic system.

7.       Soils: See the Yamhill County Soil Analysis Detail in the file.

8.       Fire Protection: West Valley Rural Fire District.

9.       Taxes: The Yamhill County tax records show the parcel is receiving forest deferral.

10,      Overlay Zones: None.

                                                             Ordinance 856 - Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm LLC
                                                                                     Bo- (D-43as
Findings     - Docket Z-03-10 (Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm, LLC)
Page 3

B.   Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.      The Board finds that the request complies with the review criteria found in Section 1208.03
        of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance, as follows:

        Review           Criteria     for   Amendments     to   or     within     Exclusive     Farm      Use     and
        Agricultural/Forestry Zones

        A quasi-judicial zone change to (1) amend the designation of land from Exclusive Farm Use,
        Agriculture/Forestry, or Forest to another of these zones, or (2} change the minimum lot size
        of land designated Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry, may be authorized, pursuant
        to Subsection 1208.01, provided that the request satisfies all applicable requirements of this
        ordinance, and also provided that the applicant demonstrates compliance with the following
        criteria:

        A,          The proposed amendment shall comply with the goals, policies, and other applicable
                 provisions of the comprehensive plan.

                 The proposed designation shall be appropriate for the existing or intended use of the
                 property.

                    The proposed amendment shall result in an area of at least           160 contiguous acres with
                    the requested designation, including adjacent land.

                    For proposed changes within or to an Exclusive Farm                 Use designation, the new
                    minimum         lot size shall be appropriate      to maintain      the existing commercial
                    agricultural enterprise in the area.

                    For proposed changes within or to an Agriculture/Forestry designation,                   the new
                    minimum lot size shall be shown to assure:

                    L.        The opportunity for economically efficient forest and agriculture practices
                              typically occurring in the area; and

                    2,        The opportunity for the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree
                              species; and

                    3.        The conservation of other forest values found on forest lands.

                    Any amendment that would change the zone map designation to reduce the minimum
                    lot size on property within an Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry district
                    shall not be granted final approval by Yamhill county until the amendment has been
                    considered and approved by the Land Conservation and Development Commission
                 pursuant to ORS 215.780(2).          The following rules shall apply:

                                                                     Ordinance 856 - Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm LLC
Findings   - Docket Z-03-10 (Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm, LLC)
Page 4

                 1.      Conditional approval. Following receipt of an application for a zone change
                         as otherwise provided by this ordinance, the county shall determine whether
                         to grant or deny the application in accordance with criteria established in this
                         section 1208.03. Ifthe application is granted, the county shall enter an order
                         of conditional approval, subject to final approval by the Land Conservation
                         and Development Commission.

                 2.      Referral of Order of Conditional Approval. After conditional approval by
                         Yamhill County, the application, county findings, order of conditional
                         approval and a request for Commission action shall be referred to the
                         Department of Land Conservation and Development.

                 3.     Final Approval. An amendment conditionally approved by Yamhill County
                         shall not take effect until the county adopts an order or ordinance authorizing
                        final approval after receipt of written confirmation of the county's conditional
                         approval by the Land Conservation and Deéfethogmdeut lio@mdisi@il 2/30/96]

         The above criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.5 below.

         Regarding criterion (A), applicable goals from the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land Use
         Plan, Section II.A.1, Goal reads:

                 To conserve Yamhill County’s farm lands for the production of crops and livestock
                 and to ensure that the conversion of farm land to urban use where necessary and
                 appropriate occurs in an orderly and economical manner.

         The majority of the subject parcel is currently in forest use and has been predominantly in
         forest use in the past. According to the application the parcel has been receiving forest deferral
         since at least 1974. The proposed zone, F-80, would more accurately reflect the existing uses
         on the subject parcel. The applicant is not proposing an urban use; the minimum lot size is to
         remain 80 acres.

         Section JLA.2, Goal reads:

                 To conserve Yamhill County’s soil resources in a manner reflecting their suitability
                Jor forestry, agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the
                purposes designated on the county plan map.

         The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows the majority of the portion of the parcel to be rezoned
         is composed of soils capable of producing at least 145 cubic feet of wood fiber per acre per
         year. The application states the majority of the property consists of hilly ground with slopes
         generally in the 10% to 20% slope range. The requested zone change will preserve the
         County’s soil resources for their suitability for forest use.

         Section II.B.1, Goal reads:

                                                              Ordinance 856 - Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm LLC
Findings   - Docket Z-03-10 (Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm, LLC)
Page 5

               To conserve and to manage efficiently the county’s forest and range resources, thereby
               ensuring a sustained yield of forest products, adequate grazing areas for domestic
               livestock, habitat for fish and wildlife, protection of forest soils and watershed, and
               preservation of recreational opportunities.

       As described above, the proposed zone change would conserve the county’s forest resources
       that currently exist on the property.

3.     Regarding criterion (B), as mentioned above, the majority of the subject parcel is currently in
       forest use and the applicant states they intend to continue timber use on the property; the zone
       change from an agriculture/forestry zone to a forestry zone would more accurately reflect the
       current and intended use of the property.

4,     Regarding criterion (C), the subject parcel is approximately 415.3 acres and approximately 114
       acres of the parcel is currently zoned F-80. Additionally, the subject site is adjacent to land to
       the east that is currently zoned F-80, therefore, the request is consistent with criterion (C).

5.     Regarding criteria (D), (E) and (F), these criteria are not applicable since the request does not
       include reducing the minimum lot size on the property.         The applicant wishes to keep the
       minimum lot size at 80 acres.

CONCLUSION:

1.     The request is for a zone change from AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry to F-80 Forestry Use. The
       total area proposed to be rezoned is approximately 300 acres.

2.     The zone change is appropriate due to the fact that the majority of the parcel is currently in
       forest use and is well suited for forest uses.

3.     The request complies with the criteria listed in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning
       Ordinance and is consistent with the applicable goals found in Yamhill County’s
       Comprehensive Plan.

4.     The proposed designation is appropriate for the existing and intended use of the property.

DECISION:

Based on the above findings and conclusions, the request by Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm, LLC, for
a zone change from AF-80, Agriculture/Forestry to F-80, Forestry Use on approximately 300 acres
of Tax Lot 5725-1000, is hereby approved.

                                                                                           “B-0.(0 -435~
                                                            Ordinance 856 - Old Elk Mountain Tree Farm LLC
                 EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 856
                            ZONE CHANGE
      ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                             JULY 21, 2010
                      FOR A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                            AF-80 Agriculture/Forestry
                                        TO
                                 F-80   FORESTRY

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOT 5725-1000 DESCRIBED AND HIGHLIGHTED ABOVE

APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 900 FEET

                                                            B.o-10-435