Zoning Ordinance
Section 302.00 - Official Zoning Map

302.01  Boundaries
The boundaries of the zoning districts and overlay districts established by Section 301.00
of this Ordinance are indicated on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all
explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this Ordinance. The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Chairman of the Board, attested by the County Clerk, and shall bear the seal of the
County under the following words:

"This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section
302  of the
Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance, No. 310, 1982."
302.02
For the precise location of all zoning district and overlay district boundaries within the
unincorporated areas of Yamhill County, reference shall be made to the Official Zoning
Map.
302.03
If, in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance, changes are made in zoning
district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes
shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been
approved by the Board or Commission. Amendments to this Ordinance which involve
matter portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall become effective upon recording in
the Clerk's Office. All changes shall also be promptly and properly recorded on the
Official Zoning Map.
302.04
No changes of any nature shall be made on the Official Zoning Map or matter shown
thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this Ordinance. Any
unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person shall be considered a violation of
this Ordinance and punishable as provided under Section 1406  of this Ordinance.
302.05
Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map which may
from time to time be made or published, there shall be only one Official Zoning Map
which shall be located in the office of the Director and which shall be the final authority
as to the current zoning status of any land and water areas, or buildings or structures in
the County.
302.06
In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult
to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and additions, the Board may, by
resolution, adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior Official
Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or
omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect
of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The
new Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Chairman of the
Board, attested by the County Clerk, and shall bear the seal of the County under the
following words:

"This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official
Zoning Map adopted on the 1 st day of February, 1976, as part of the Yamhill County
Zoning Ordinance , No. 310, 1982."

Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally destroyed, the
prior Map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be preserved, together with all
available records pertaining to its adoption or amendments.

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page