Film 91
                                                                                          0143
                                                                   ‘06    AUG18 P4:23

       BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                         FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

           SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from
Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to Commercial and a

                                                                  eee
Zone Change from EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use to                             Ordinance 790
Recreational Commercial (RC), Taking Exceptions to
Planning Goals 3, 4 and 14, Docket PAZ-01-06,
Applicant David Kahn and the Hazel B, Timmons Trust,

                                                                  Nee
Tax Lot 3333-320, and Declaring an Emergency

         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS              OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON                  (the
“Board”) sat for the transaction of county business on August      16, 2006, Commissioners
Leslie Lewis, Kathy George and Mary P. Stern being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that David Kahn and the Hazel B. Timmons
Trust applied to the Yamhill County Department of Planning (Planning Docket PAZ-01-06)
for a Comprehensive Plan amendment zone change and exceptions to Statewide Planning
Goals 3; 4; and 14 and

        If APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard by the Yamhill
County Planning Commission at duly noticed public hearings on March 2 and May 4, 2006,
after which the Commission voted to recommend approving the application by a vote of 7-1;
the Board held a duly noticed public hearing June 7, 2006. After due consideration of the
Application and the objections presented, the Board tentatively voted 3-0 to approve the
Application, NOW, THEREFORE,

    IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference
incorporated herein, This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
upon passage. A map of the area is appended as Exhibit “B”.

lit

if

                                                                                           Bb. de- S64
                                                                                  Ordinance 790
                                                                                          Page|
                                                                               Film 91
                                                                                0144

           DONE this 16th day of August, 2006, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                               YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN                              [lobe         MX   Voara.
       &                             Chaft                  CESLIE LEWIS

                                             Nerd, Lhegr
                                     Con{missioner |        KATHY    GEORGE

         iVEDy    gt         :                                      —,..
  4 vt.       a                      Commissioner’          MARY P. STERN
Rick Sanai
Assistant County Counsel

                                                                              £.0.06-564
                                                                              Ordinance 790
                                                                                      Page
                                                                                Film 91
                                                                                  0145

                             ORDINANCE       790 - FINDINGS

I.        INTRODUCTION

       This document supports Yamhill County Ordinance No. 790, which adopts
exceptions to Statewide Planning Goals 3, 4 and 14, and approves related map
amendments to the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan ("YCCP" or "Plan") and
Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance ("YCZO") affecting approximately 12 acres of
property on a 65.86-acre parcel. This decision approves Plan map amendments from
Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to Commercial, and zoning map amendments
from Exclusive Farm Use (EFU) to Recreational Commercial (RC) in order to allow
the development of a luxury wine country hotel and associated facilities.

Y.        APPLICANT

        The application was submitted by David Kahn and the Hazel B. Timmons Trust
(the "applicants”). The subject property is owned by the Hazel B. Timmons Trust.

Il.       DESCRIPTION OF SITE AND PROPOSAL

       The subject property is a 65.86-acre parcel located at 7209 NE Breyman
Orchards Road near Dayton, Oregon (Tax Lot 320). The parcel is located in
Section 33, Township 3 South, Range 3 West of the Willamette Meridian, in an area
known as the Red Hills of Dundee. The property is an irregularly shaped parcel that
includes land on both sides of a steeply sloped hill, and contains a vacant residence on
the ridge at the top of the hill. The property includes fallow fields of open grass on
the south side of the hill, and a forested area on the north side of the hill. Elevations
on the property range from between approximately 700 feet and 900 feet above sea
level.

          The subject property is bounded on the north by forested lands and by the
Timmons Quarry, which is adjacent to the northwest boundary of the property. The
Domaine Drouhin vineyards and winery are located to the south. A bed and breakfast,
known as Wine Country Farms, is located to the southwest across Breyman Orchards
Road. Forest land is immediately adjacent to the eastern property line and there are
vineyards further to the east. Vineyards and one winery are found west of the
property.

        According to the U.S. Department of Agricultural Soil Conservation Service
State Soil Geographic Database, the dominant soil type in the area is "Jory" with a
silty clay-loam surface texture. The soils are considered well-drained and the water

Ordinance 790                                                                      Edyhe
                                                                                            ente TPO
                                                                                B.0. 06- SOF
                                                                                 Film 91
                                                                                  0146

table is more than 6 feet deep. The soils fit within the Class C hydrologic group
indicating slow infiltration rates. However, the high elevation of the property makes
vineyards commercially impractical, and the property has not been used for any
agricultural purposes for at least 10 years. The owners are not receiving any farm or
forestry tax deferral for the property.

       The applicants propose to develop a luxury wine country hotel on the southern
portion of the parcel, on the ridge that is the highest part of the property in a location
that is generally indicated on the conceptual site diagram prepared by OTAK and
submitted by the applicants. The remainder of the 65-acre parcel will remain in EFU
zoning. The property will be accessed from NE Breyman Orchards Road. Northeast
Timmons Lane travels from the end of NE Breyman Orchards Road northeast across
the parcel to the existing residence and pump house on the property.

       The applicants' proposal is to develop a hotel modeled after certain high-end
wine country hotels in Napa Valley — specifically, Auberge du Soleil, Calistoga Ranch
and Meadowood.     The hotel will be relatively small, with approximately 50 rooms, a
restaurant, a spa, and limited meeting facilities. The proposed hotel will support and
enhance the Yamhill County economy by providing a unique luxury hotel in the heart
of wine country that will allow wine country tourists to stay in Yamhill County rather
than in Portland. In order to provide the requisite destination wine country experience
similar to the identified Napa Valley hotels, the hotel must be located in a quiet and
idyllic rural setting that affords privacy as well as expansive views of the surrounding
wine country, and must also be in close proximity to wineries with tasting rooms.

IV.       COUNTY PROCEDURES

       The application was filed on January 20, 2006. An initial public hearing was
held before the County Planning Commission on March 2, 2006, at which hearing the
applicants, their representatives, and many interested individuals presented testimony
to the Planning Commission. The hearing was continued until May 4, 2006 in order to
allow all parties the opportunity to submit additional written materials. On April 24,
2006, the applicant submitted a revised application narrative, together with additional
supporting materials, which included detailed responses to issues raised by opponents
and the Planning Commission.

       The Planning Commission heard further testimony at its May 4, 2006 hearing.
At the close of the public testimony, the Planning Commission held the record open
until May 18, 2006 for all parties to submit additional evidence into the record, and
until May 25, 2006 for all parties to submit responses to evidence submitted during the
first open record period. The Planning Commission provided the applicant a final

Ordinance 790                                ood                                       8/15/08
                                                                                Film 91
                                                                                 0147

five-day period to provide final written argument, which the applicant submitted on
May 30, 2006.

          The Planning Commission considered all of the materials submitted during the
open record period and deliberated to a decision at its meeting on June 1, 2006. At
that meeting, the Planning Commission voted 7-1 in favor of recommending approval
of the application.

        The Board of Commissioners held a public hearing on June 7, 2006, and heard
testimony from the applicants, the applicants' representatives, and interested members
of the public. At the close of the public hearing, the Board held the record open until
June 19, 2006 for all parties to submit additional evidence into the record, and until
June 26, 2006 for all parties to submit responses to evidence submitted during the first
open record period. Two items were submitted by email after the 5:00 p.m. deadline
on June 26, 2006: an email from Jason Lett forwarding correspondence from
Katherine Elstrom, and an email from Alan Campbell. Those two items were
expressly excluded from the record by the Board. The Board provided the applicant a
final three-day period to provide final written argument, which the applicant submitted
on June 29, 2006.

          The Board of Commissioners considered all of the materials submitted during
the open record period and deliberated to a decision at its meeting on July 5, 2006. At
that meeting, the Board of Commissioners voted 3-0 in favor of approving the
application.

Vv.       INCORPORATION OF STAFF REPORTS

       The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the
county staff reports dated March 2, 2006, June 1, 2006 and July 5, 2006. In the event
of a discrepancy between the incorporated staff reports and these findings, the express
findings of the Board shall govern.

VI.       APPLICABLE STANDARDS AND CRITERIA

       This application involves amendments to acknowledged county comprehensive
plan provisions and land use regulations, as well as exceptions to Statewide Planning
Goals 3, 4 and 14. Under Oregon's land use statutes and goals, this application must
be found to comply with a multitude of standards and criteria, including the following:

          A.    Statutes

                 1,    ORS 197.340(1) — Goals provided equal weight.

Ordinance 790                               “                                        8/15/06
                                                                               Film 94
                                                                                0148

                2.    ORS 197.610 and 197.615 ~ Post-acknowledgment amendment
                      procedures.

                3.    ORS 197.712(2)(g) — Economic development obligation to
                      provide reasonable opportunities for economic development on
                      lands outside urban growth boundaries.

                4.    ORS 197.732 ~ Goal exception standards.

                5.    ORS 197.763 — Notice and procedures for quasi-judicial
                      hearings.

          B.    Statewide Planning Goals

                1.    Goal One — Citizen Involvement

                2.    Goal Two — Land Use Planning

                3.    Goal Three ~ Agricultural Lands

                4,    Goal Four — Forest Lands

                3,    Goal Five ~ Open Spaces, Scenic and Historic Areas and Natural
                      Resources

                6.    Goal Six = Air, Water and Land Resource Quality

                7,    Goal Seven ~ Areas Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards

                8.    Goal Eight — Recreational Needs

                9.    Goal Nine — Economic Development

                10.   Goal Ten ~ Housing

                11.   Goal Eleven ~ Public Facilities and Services

                12.   Goal Twelve — Transportation

                13.   Goal Thirteen — Energy Conservation

                14.   Goal Fourteen — Urbanization

Ordinance 790                               -                                        8/15/06
                                                                                    Film 91
                                                                                     0149

          c.    State Agency Rules

                1.    OAR Chapter 660, Division 4 — Interpretation of Goal 2
                      Exception Process:

                      OAR 660-004-000          Purpose

                      OAR 660-004-005          Definitions

                      OAR 660-004-0010         Application of the Goal 2 Exception
                                               Process to Certain Goals

                      OAR 660-004-0015         Inclusion as Part of the Plan

                      OAR 660-004-0018         Planning and Zoning for Exception
                                               Areas

                      OAR 660-004-0020         Goal 2, Part II(c), Exception
                                               Requirements

                      OAR 660-004-0022         Reasons Necessary to Justify an
                                               Exception Under Goal 2, Part II(c)

                      OAR 660-004-0030         Notice and Adoption of an Exception

                2.    OAR. Chapter-660, Division-12. —-Transportation Planning

                      OAR 660-012-0060         Plan and Land Use Regulation
                                               Amendments

                      OAR 660-012-0065         Transportation Improvements on Rural
                                               Lands

                3.    OAR Chapter 660, Division 14 — Application of the Statewide
                      Planning Goals to Newly Incorporated Cities and to Urban
                      Development on Rural Lands:

                      OAR 660-014-0040     — Establishment of New Urban
                                             Development on Undeveloped Rural
                                             Lands

                4,    OAR Chapter 660, Division 18 ~ Plan and Land Use Regulation
                      Amendment Review

Ordinance 790                              -                                           8/15/06
                                                                             Film 94
                                                                              0150

          D.    County Comprehensive Plan Provisions

        The following Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan provisions are implicated
by this application:

                1.     Urban Growth and Change and Economic Development

                       a.     Urban Area Development

                       b.     Rural Area Development

                       c.     Economic Development

                       d.     Commercial Development

                       The Land and Water

                       a.     Agricultural Lands

                       b.     Forest Lands

                       C.     Water Resources

                       Transportation, Communications and Public Utilities

                       a.     Transportation

                       Environmental Quality

                       a.     Air, Water and Land Resource Quality

          E.    ¥CZO    Provisions

        The following Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance provisions are implicated by
this application:

                Section 1204 — Goal Exceptions

                Section 1208 — Quasi-judicial Zone District Boundary Changes

          F.    Overlapping Requirements, Exceptions, and Roadmap to
                Findings.

       The above-referenced land use standards and criteria require demonstration of
compliance with a broad array of state and local provisions. It is not always easy to

Ordinance 790                                  --                                *     8/15/06
                                                                                     Film 914
                                                                                      0151

determine which specific statutory, goal, rule, plan and/or code provisions apply to a
given proposal. Nor is it easy to resolve all of the inherent conflicts and interpretative
issues that arise out of these frequently overlapping and occasionally inconsistent
regulations.

       The proposed map amendments comply with most of the provisions of the
applicable goals and comprehensive plan provisions; however, the proposed
amendments do not comply with certain other goal and plan policies that require
"urban" levels of development to be located within urban growth boundaries and that
prohibit development of agricultural lands. These departures from the requirements of
Goals 3, 4 and 14, and from acknowledged comprehensive plan provisions
implementing those goals, require the approval of "exceptions" to the goals.
Exceptions are amendments to comprehensive plan provisions that set forth facts and
reasons authorizing and justifying the necessary departures from the goals. In this
instance, the applicant has requested "reasons" exceptions to Goals 3 and 4, and also
an exception to Goal 14, The county's approval of these goal exceptions under the
applicable state statutes and rules authorize the proposed amendments despite the fact
that the amendments would otherwise conflict with the goals.

       In these findings, applicable standards and criteria are set forth in bold-face
headings and/or italicized type followed by the county's findings including facts,
reasons and legal conclusions. These findings are organized so that the analysis
begins with state law and proceeds to local law. Thus, the next section deals with
state statutes and their implanting administrative rules, followed by.a section
addressing the Statewide Planning Goals and their implementing administrative rules,
and a section addressing the standards for goal exceptions.. Those sections are
followed by sections addressing applicable standards and criteria from the county
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance. Often the same or similar criteria are
found in more than one source. These findings attempt to minimize repetition and
redundancy, using cross-references where possible and adding or repeating material
only where necessary.

VU.       STATE STATUTES

          A.    ORS 197.610 and 197.615 — Postacknowledment Amendments

        ORS 197.610(1) and OAR 660-018-0020 require the county to forward a
proposal to amend its acknowledged comprehensive plan or land use regulations to the
DLCD director at least 45 days prior to the initial hearing. The county sent the
requisite notice of the proposed amendments to DLCD on January 20, 2006. DLCD
participated in the proceedings and submitted three letters regarding the application.

Ordinance 790                                -                                           8/15/08
                                                                                  Film 91
                                                                                    0152

        After final approval and adoption of amendments to a comprehensive plan or
land use regulation, ORS 197.615(1) and OAR 660-018-0040 require the county to
submit a copy of the text of the amendment and supporting findings to DLCD within
five business days after the final decision is adopted. The county must also provide
notice of the adopted amendment to persons who participated in the local proceedings
and requested in writing that they be provided such notice. The county will comply
with these requirements upon final adoption of these findings.

          B.    ORS 197.712(2)(g) — Economic Development Obligation

         This statute requires the county to provide "reasonable opportunities to satisfy
local and rural needs for residential and industrial development and other economic
activities on appropriate lands outside urban growth boundaries, in a manner
consistent with conservation of the state's agricultural and forest land bases." The fact
that these amendments are consistent with this purpose is demonstrated by the
findings addressing Goal 9 in Section VIILI of these findings, and by the findings
justifying exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14 in Section IX below.

          Cc.   ORS 197.732 — Goal Exceptions

          The requirements established by ORS 197.732 for goal exceptions, as well as
the identical requirements of Goal 2, Part Il and OAR 660 Divisions 4 and 14 are
addressed in Section IX of these findings.

          D.    ORS 197.763 — Quasi-Judicial Land Use Hearing Procedures

       The county provided mailed notice of the application to all owners of record
within 750 feet of the subject property more than ten days prior to the first evidentiary
hearing on the application, as required by ORS 197.763(2)-(3). More than ten days
prior to the hearing before the Board of Commissioners, the county provided notice to
all owners of record within 750 feet of the subject property and to all interested parties
identified during the initial evidentiary hearing. The county held three evidentiary
hearings on the application — two before the Planning Commission on March 2, 2006
and May 4, 2006, and another before the Board of Commissioners on June 7, 2006.

       During the course of the proceedings, all documents and evidence submitted to
the county by the applicant and other parties were available to the public for review at
the County Planning Department offices, as required by ORS 197.763(4)(a). All
county staff reports were available at least seven days prior to the hearing for which
they were prepared, as required by ORS 197.763(4)(b). At the beginning of each
public hearing, County Counsel made a statement identifying the applicable
procedures and criteria, as required by ORS 197.763(5). Both the Planning

Ordinance 790                               --                                        8/15/08
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                       0153

Commission and the Board of Commissioners held the record open after the close of
the hearings to allow parties the opportunity to provide new evidence and respond to
new evidence, as provided by ORS 197.763(6).

VII.      STATEWIDE       PLANNING GOALS

          The Board finds that the requested amendments are consistent with all of the
applicable Statewide Planning Goals, as addressed below.

          A.     Goal 1 - Citizen Involvement

       Goal 1 requires local government to develop a citizen involvement program to
ensure the opportunity for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning process.
Because Goal 1 establishes a requirement for local government to develop a program,
it is not directly applicable to this decision. However, the county's citizen
involvement plan has been adopted by the county and acknowledged by the Land
Conservation and Development Commission. The hearings and county evaluation
process for this case has been governed by that acknowledged program. For this
particular request, multiple public hearings have been held by the county. The Board
finds that Goal 1 has been met generally by the county and specifically in this
instance.

          B.     Goal 2 - Land Use Planning

          Part I of Goal 2 requires the establishment:-of the land-use-planning- and policy
framework as a basis for all decisions and actions. Part II of Goal 2 relates to the
exception process that must be followed when an applicant or local jurisdiction
requests an exception to a Statewide Planning Goal. The first part of Goal 2 has been
met by acknowledgement of the county's comprehensive plan by LCDC. With respect
to part 2, findings regarding the applicable exception criteria are set forth in Section
IX below.

          C.     Goal 3 — Agricultural Lands

          Goal 3 relates to the preservation of agricultural lands. The application
requests map amendments that would allow commercial development on lands that are
currently in an agriculture/forest plan map designation, and therefore an exception to
Goal 3 is required. Findings addressing the applicable exception criteria are set forth
in Section IX below.

Ordinance 790                                  -                                          8/15/08
                                                                                         Film 91
                                                                                          0154

          D.     Goal 4 — Forest Lands

          Goal 4 relates to the preservation of forest lands. The application requests map
amendments that would allow commercial development on lands that are currently in
an agriculture/forest plan map designation. Yamhill County has interpreted that a
Goal 4 exception is not required since the property is zoned for exclusive farm use
(EFU). However, opponents have asserted that a Goal 4 exception is required, and
findings in support of a Goal 4 exception are included in case it is determined that
such an exception is required. Findings addressing the applicable exception criteria
are set forth in Section IX below.

          E.     Goal 5 — Open Spaces, Scenic and Historic Areas and Natural
                 Resources

       No Goal 5 natural resources (wetlands, riparian areas, wildlife habitat, etc.) are
present on the subject property.

          F.     Goal 6 — Air, Water and Land Resources Quality

        Goal 6 addresses waste and process discharges from future development and
requires local governments to determine that the future discharges, when combined
with existing development, would not threaten to violate or violate applicable state or
federal environmental quality statutes, rules and standards. The applicants have
submitted evidence establishing that they will comply with any applicable state and
federal environmental laws and regulations all down the line. Therefore, Goal 6 will
be met.

          G.     Goal 7— Area Subject to Natural Disasters and Hazards

          No such areas have been identified on the site; therefore, Goal 7 is not
applicable.

          H.     Goal 8 — Recreational Needs

          The area is not identified as a recreational resource by the county, and the
application does not request approval as a destination resort; therefore, Goal 8 is not
applicable.

          I      Goal 9 — Economic Development

        Goal 9 requires that local government provide adequate opportunities for a
variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare and prosperity of the citizens
of Oregon. The new hotel will encourage economic development in Yamhill County

Ordinance 790                                  -                                         8/15/06
                                                                                              4
                                                                                    Film 91
                                                                                      0155

by stimulating the vineyard, winery, and tourism industries in the County, and
providing new employment opportunities at the hotel and restaurant. The construction
of the hotel will also result in a number of temporary construction jobs that will
benefit the county. The Board finds that the amendments are consistent with Goal 9.

          J.     Goal 10 — Housing

          Goal 10 relates to housing needs, and is not applicable to this application.

          K.     Goal 11 - Public Facilities and Services

        Goal 11 requires local governments to plan and develop a timely, orderly and
efficient arrangement of public facilities and services to serve as a framework for
urban and rural development. The applicants have established that necessary public
services such as fire protection are available.     Water and waste treatment systems will
be provided through private systems. The applicants have submitted substantial
evidence in the form of testimony from Newton Consultants regarding the feasibility
of providing water and from Environmental Management Systems regarding the
feasibility of on-site wastewater treatment at the site. The Board's decision is
conditioned upon the applicants' ability to obtain a permit for a well that will provide
adequate water for the proposed use. The Board finds that the amendments are
consistent with Goal 11.

          L.     Goal 12 — Transportation

        Goal 12 requires a safe, convenient, and economic transportation system. The
traffic impact analysis (TIA) prepared by Lancaster Engineering dated April 2006
demonstrates that the proposed map amendments will not have significant adverse
impact on the county transportation plan nor will it prevent the county from meeting
any of its citizens’ transportation needs.

        Goal 12 is implemented by the Transportation Planning Rule (TPR), which is
set forth at OAR Chapter 660, Division 12. The TPR creates specific requirements for
compliance and coordination among affected units of local government for the
preparation, adoption, refinement, implementation and amendment of transportation
system plans and local comprehensive plans and land use regulations.

        The TPR requires that any amendments to comprehensive plans or land use
regulations that "significantly affect a transportation facility" must assure that the
allowed land uses "are consistent with the identified function, capacity and
performance standards of the facility.". An amendment "significantly affects" a
transportation facility if it would: (1) change the functional classification of an

Ordinance 790                                  --                                        8/15/06
                                                                                         Film 914
                                                                                          0156

existing or planned transportation facility, (2) change standards implementing a
functional classification system; (3) allow types land uses or levels of development
that are inconsistent with the functional classification of an existing or planned
transportation facility; (4) reduce the performance standards of an existing or planned
facility below minimally acceptable levels identified in the local transportation system
plan; or (5) worsen the performance of an existing or planned transportation facility
that is otherwise projected to perform below the minimum acceptable performance
standard identified in the TSP or comprehensive plan. OAR 660-012-0060(1).

       For the proposed amendments to demonstrate compliance with the TPR, the
Board must conclude that the traffic impacts from the proposed hotel are either within
the performance standards of the impacted transportation facility or that adverse
impacts are mitigated.

        The Lancaster TIA considers whether any transportation facilities would be
"significantly affected" by the proposed facility within the meaning of the TPR. The
TIA concludes that traffic generated as a result of the proposed amendments:

          ®     will not require the reclassification of an existing or planned roadway,

          e     will not alter standards of a functional classification system,

          e     will not create traffic volumes that are inconsistent with the current
                roadway functional classification system, and

          e     will not reduce the performance of the roadway system below acceptable
                performance standards.

          The Lancaster TIA considers the traffic impacts of a 50-unit hotel, and
analyzes current and future operations of four intersections of Highway 99W that are
likely to be utilized by traffic generated by the proposed hotel. The TIA concludes
that the proposed hotel would generate approximately 44 trips during the Saturday
peak hour, including hotel guests, visitors, employees, delivery services, and other
traffic. The Saturday peak hour rate is 25 percent higher than the weekday evening
peak hour rate based on occupied rooms.

        The TIA finds that the study area intersections on Highway 99W are currently
operating acceptably under ODOT operational standards. By 2025, as background
traffic volumes continue to increase, the intersection of Highway 18 and Highway
99W is expected to operate over capacity if the Newburg-Dundee Bypass is not
constructed. However, even without considering the positive effects of the Bypass,
the TIA concludes that the remaining three study area intersections will continue to

Ordinance 790                                     ~~                                          8/15/08
                                                                                Film 94
                                                                                 0157

operate well within ODOT standards and will have sufficient capacity to
accommodate traffic from the proposed development. When the Bypass is
constructed, the volume-to-capacity ratios for all four relevant intersections will drop
to between 0.03 and 0.23, which is well below minimum applicable standards.
However, because ODOT does not consider the Bypass to be a "planned facility"
within the meaning of the new TPR, the Bypass cannot be considered for purposes of
satisfying the TPR requirements. Therefore, regarding the intersection of Highway 18
and Highway 99W, the TIA concludes that McDougall Road to the east, and Stoller
Road and McDougall Road to the west, will offer alternative routes to access Highway
99W and Highway 18, which alternative routes will have adequate capacity to
accommodate traffic from the proposed development in 2025 without the Bypass in
place.

       The Board finds that Goal 12 and the TPR are satisfied. The Board of
Commissioners expressly adopts and incorporates into its findings the Lancaster TIA
dated April 2006, as well as the supplemental memoranda placed in the record by
Lancaster dated May 18, 2006, June 7, 2006 and June 17, 2006. To the extent there is
any discrepancy between the Lancaster materials adopted by the Board and these
findings, the express findings of the Board shall govern.

          M.     Goal 13 —- Energy Conservation

          Goal 13 requires that land uses maximize conservation of all forms of energy
based on sound economic principles. The goal is implemented by local plans and
regulations that control location, orientation and density of development to minimize
net energy consumption. As required by a condition of approval imposed by the
Board, future site design review approval of the proposed hotel will require "green
development" provisions, including steps designed to conserve energy, reduce vehicle
trips, and conserve waste water and building materials.

          N.     Goal 14 -- Urbanization

          Compliance with the Goal 14 exception criteria is addressed below in Section
IX.B of the findings, which conclude that the applicable exception criteria are
satisfied.

          QO.    Goal 15 ~ Willamette River Greenway

          This Statewide Planning Goal is not applicable to this application.

          P,     Goal 16 ~ Estuarine Resources

Ordinance 790                                 --                                          18/15/06
                                                                                        Film 91
                                                                                          0158

          This Statewide Planning Goal is not applicable in Yamhill County.

          Q.     Goal 17 - Coastal Shorelands             |

          This Statewide Planning Goal is not applicable in Yamhill County.

          R.     Goal 18 — Beaches and Dunes

          This Statewide Planning Goal is not applicable in Yamhill County.

          S.     Goal 19 ~ Ocean Resources

          This Statewide Planning Goal is not applicable in Yamhill County.

        For the reasons stated above, the Board finds that the proposed amendments are
consistent with all applicable Statewide Planning Goals.

TX.       GOAL EXCEPTIONS

          Goal exceptions are authorized under statewide planning statutes, goals and
administrative rules in order to provide flexibility for situations in which a departure
from the strict application of the goals is justified based on site-specific and project-
specific conditions. Approval of a goal exception does not establish precedent for
allowing future goal exceptions. Goal 2 defines the term "exception" as follows:

          "Exception means a comprehensive plan provision, including an.amendment.to
          an acknowledged comprehensive plan, that:

          "(a)   Is applicable to specific properties or situations and does not establish a
                 planning or zoning policy of general applicability;

          "(b)   Does not comply with some or all goal requirements applicable to the
                 subject properties or situations; and

          "(c)   Complies with standards for an exception."

          There are three types of exceptions:       (1) "developed" exceptions are justified
where the property is physically developed to the point where resource use is no
longer practicable; (2) "committed" exceptions are justified where the nature of nearby
physical development makes resource use impracticable; and (3) "reasons" exceptions
are justified where there is a need for development at the site in question and where
the applicant establishes that reasons justify why the policy embodied in the applicable
goals should not apply, the site compares favorably with other possible locations for

Ordinance 790                                    Satad                                      8/15/06
                                                                                         Film 91
                                                                                          0159

the proposed development, and the proposed use is compatible with other adjacent
uses or can be made compatible through measures designed to reduce impacts.

          A.     Application of OAR Chapter 660 Exception Criteria

          The application requests "reasons" exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14. The
general criteria for reasons exceptions are set forth in LCDC's administrative rules at
OAR 660-004-0020. The rules then provide additional "reasons" that can justify an
exception at OAR 660-004-0022, including criteria that must be applied to more
specific types of uses. Then, where an exception to Goal 14 is required to allow
"urban" levels of use on rural land, still another set of criteria are set forth at OAR
660-014-0040. Thus, for an application that requires reasons exceptions to Goal 3 and
Goal 4 along with an exception to Goal 14, the overlapping nature of these three sets
of rules results in a particularly complex and Byzantine process even by "normal"
exception rule standards.

          The Board of Commissioners finds that the language of the exception rules,
together with LUBA case law applying those rules, establish that where an exception
to Goal 14 is required in conjunction with exceptions to Goal 3 or Goal 4, the
exception criteria of OAR 660-014-0040 must be applied to the exclusion of the
reasons exception criteria in OAR 660-004-0020 and 0022. The explanation for this
conclusion is spelled out by LUBA in Caine v. Tillamook County, 25 Or LUBA 209
(1993), which involved an exception to Goal 14 and Goal 4. In Caine, the question
arose regarding which specific exception criteria should be applied, and LUBA
explained as follows:

          "We recognize that the parties do not argue that OAR 660-04-020 and
          660-04-022 do not apply to the challenged decision. Further, it is
          unclear whether the challenged decision applies the standards of OAR
          660-04-020 and 660-04-022. However, we believe resolution of this
          threshold issue is important to a useful disposition of this appeal.
          Accordingly, we determine whether OAR 660-04-020 and 660-04-022
          apply to the challenged decision.

          "OAR 660-04-000(1) provides:

                 '** * Except as provided for in OAR 660 Division 14,
                 this Division interprets the exceptions process as it applies
                 to state-wide Goals 3 to 19." (Emphasis supplied.)

          "In addition, OAR 660-04-022(1) provides:

Ordinance 790                                  -                                       8/15/06
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                      0760

                'For uses not specifically provided for in * * * OAR 660,
                Division 14, the reasons shall justify why the state policies
                embodied in the applicable goals should not apply. Such
                reasons include but are not limited to the following:
                 ‘#4       tT (Emphasis supplied.)

          "By its own terms, OAR 660-04-022 applies to a reasons exception to
          applicable goals, only to the extent that OAR 660, Division 14 does not.
          Further, nothing in OAR 660-04-020 and 660-04-022 suggests that
          either of those rules were intended to impose additional standards to
          those articulated by OAR 660, Division 14. Therefore, the question is
          whether OAR 660, Division 14 applies to the proposal.

          "OAR 660-14-000 states that Division 14:

                 '* * * Specifies the satisfactory method of applying
                 Statewide Planning Goals 2, 3, 4, 11 and 14 to the
                 incorporation of new cities."

          "OAR 660-14-040, the rule on the incorporation of new cities on
          undeveloped rural land, includes provisions applicable to 'new urban
          development on rural land.' OAR 660-14-040(2). Specifically, OAR
          660-14-040(2) provides that:

                 "A county can justify an exception to Goal 14 to allow
                 new urban development on rural land. Reasons which can
                justify why the policies in Goals 3, 4, 11 and 14 should not
                apply can include but are not limited to [certain suggested
                reasons]."

          "The basic issue in this appeal proceeding is whether the county's
          exceptions to Goals 4 and 14 are adequate. Moreover, there is no
          dispute that the proposal will allow the placement of urban level
          development on rural land. Accordingly, OAR 660-14-040 applies to
          the challenged exceptions to Goals 4 and 14 and OAR 660-04-020 and
          660-04-022 do not apply. Therefore, no purpose is served in reviewing
          petitioner's challenges to the proposal's compliance with OAR 660-04-
          020 and 660-04-022."   Caine, 25 Or LUBA at 219-220.

        The situation reviewed by LUBA in the Caine decision is identical to the
situation before the Board of Commissioners in this matter, in that exceptions to both

Ordinance 790                                  -                                     8/15/06
                                                                                   Film 91
                                                                                     0161

a resource goal and Goal 14 were required, and LUBA concluded that only the Goal
14 exception criteria should be applied. LUBA also addressed the interplay between
the Division 4 and Division 14 exception criteria in DLCD v. Umatilla County, 39 Or
LUBA 715 (2001), where LUBA explained:

          "Under this framework, determining which criteria apply requires that
          the local government identify the character of the use for which a
          reasons exception is proposed. If the proposed exception involves
          circumstances or uses not governed by OAR 660-004-0022(2) through
          (10) or OAR Chapter 660, division 14, then OAR 660-004-0022(1)(a)-
          (c) provide the applicable criteria for determining whether reasons
          justify the proposed exception. If, on the other hand, the proposed
          exception is intended to allow urban development, then OAR 660-004-
          0022(1) directs the county to OAR 660-014-0040. Conversely, if the
          proposed exception is intended to allow rural residential development,
          then OAR 660-004-0022(1) directs the county to OAR 660-004-
          0022(2)." DLCD vy. Umatilla County, 39 Or LUBA at 721-22.

        The present application involves an exception that would allow the
development of a 50-unit hotel, which is an urban level of commercial use and not
"rural" use. Under the express language of the applicable LCDC rules, and for the
reasons expressed by LUBA in the above-quoted cases, the Board concludes that the
criteria for reviewing the proposed exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14 are the Division 14
rules at OAR 660-014-0040, and the reasons, exception criteria at OAR 660-004-0020
and 0022 do not apply. However, as a precaution in the event that this decision is
appealed and LUBA decides to reverse its prior decisions in Caine and DLCD v.
Umatilla County, the Board also adopts findings that separately address the criteria of
OAR 660-004-0020 and 0022 in Sections [X.C and D below.

          B.     OAR 660-014-0040 — Reasons Justifying the Exceptions

          As explained above, the applicable exception criteria are set forth in the
Division 14 rules at OAR 660-014-0040, which is entitled "Establishment of New
Urban Development on Undeveloped Rural Land." For the reasons stated below, the
Board finds that the application satisfies these criteria, and that the applicant has
thereby established that sufficient reasons exist under Goal 2 and the Division 14 niles
to justify the necessary exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14.

       OAR 660-014-0040(2) provides that one means by which a county can justify a
Goal 14 exception is to provide reasons that justify why the policies in Goals 3, 4, 11
and 14 should not apply, including findings that urban levels of facilities and services

Ordinance 790                                  --                                       8/15/08
                                                                                    Film 91
                                                                                     0162

are necessary to support an economic activity that is dependent upon an adjacent or
nearby natural resource. However, the rule expressly states that this is not the only
"reason" on which the county can justify an exception to the goals. Although
proximity to a nearby natural resource is not an exclusive test for justifying exceptions
under the Division 14 rules, for the reasons addressed in more detail below regarding
the specific locational requirements of the proposed wine country hotel, the Board
finds that this element of the rule is satisfied by the subject property's proximity to the
county's wine country agricultural resources.

        The proposed hotel will not create a permanent "urban population" on the
subject property in the same way that expansion of an urban growth boundary would
result in an urban population. The only significant development on the 65-acre
property will be the hotel, which will only be temporarily inhabited by visiting hotel
guests and hotel staff, and will also be subject to seasonal variations in levels of use.
While the hotel will certainly increase the number of people on the property above
current levels, it will not result in an “urban population" of the property within any
rational meaning of that term, although the hotel will rely upon residents of urban
population centers for its success. The hotel will provide urban levels of facilities and
services on rural land within the meaning of Goal 14, and will allow development on
land zoned for resource uses under Goals 3 and 4, and therefore exceptions to those
goals are required.

      The applicants’ proposed wine country hotel is targeted at a specific
demographic of relatively more affluent "core" wine consumers, who are the most
likely wine country tourists. As explained in the ECONorthwest analysis and
materials cited therein, these more affluent tourists seek small hotels and resorts,
which offer more privacy and a wider array of services and amenities, rather than bed
and breakfast-type accommodations, In fact, according to the profile prepared for the
Washington State Business and Tourism Office titled "Washington Wine Country
Visitor Profile 2003," wine country tourists prefer hotels over B&Bs by a ten-to-one
ratio. The specific demographic characteristics of wine country tourists and the types
of accommodations and amenities they seek are addressed in detail in the April 24,
2006 ECONorthwest analysis at pages 2-4. For such tourists, a vacation to wine
country is typically an opportunity to get away from stressful jobs and noisy urban
environments, and seek refuge in a quiet, relaxing, upscale environment where they
can enjoy fine wines and food, and also pursue their interest in wine by visiting
wineries with tasting rooms and related facilities. Wine country tourists are currently
well-served by Napa Valley hotels such as Auberge du Soleil, Meadowood and
Calistoga Ranch, which provide this type of wine country experience in a quiet rural
atmosphere among vineyards and near wineries. As discussed in more detail below,

Ordinance 790                                --                                          8/15/06
                                                                                   Film 91
                                                                                    0163

 the applicants’ proposal is modeled after these hotels, which provide a very distinct
 type of lodging product with distinct site-related characteristics.

          As explained in the economic analysis and supplemental materials prepared by
 ECONorthwest, despite the fact that Oregon (and Yamhill County in particular), is the
 home to many internationally known wineries that produce world-class wines, Oregon
 lacks a full-service "destination" hotel in the wine country area of the type found in
 Napa Valley, such as Meadowood, Auberge du Soleil and Calistoga Ranch. The
 proposed hotel will generate significant economic benefits to the County. At present,
 wine country tourists who decide to visit Yamhill County on a vacation are far more
 likely to stay in Portland than in Yamhill County, and must make at least a 60-mile
 round trip drive in order to visit wineries. In addition to depriving Yamhill County of
 tourist-related income, this situation also results in higher vehicle miles traveled and
 carbon emissions. As stated in the ECONorthwest study, "millions of potential
 tourism dollars are likely going unspent in Yamhill County because Oregon's wine
 country is inconvenient and does not have adequate accommodations for wine country
 tourists."

         The-need for a hotel of this type in the wine country of Yamhill County was
 recognized as early as 1988, when a report commissioned by Yamhill County
 identified a “pressing need" for a lodging and dining establishment like the proposed
 hotel designed to serve growing numbers of wine country tourists. That report is
 dated August 22, 1988 and is titled "A Feasibility Study for Destination Resort
 Development.” The study was.prepared by INTRA for the purposes of determining
 the potential size and type of future destination resorts in Yamhill County, identifying
 the target markets for such a resort, projecting the employment and economic impacts,
 and developing siting criteria and identifying one or more appropriate sites for such
 development in Yamhill County, (See INTRA Study, page 1-1). The 1988 study was
 submitted into the record by the applicants on May 18, 2006 and is adopted and
 incorporated by the Board as part of these findings.

          As stated in the INTRA study, even as long ago as 1988 Yamhill County was
 attempting to capitalize on the tourism benefits associated with its growing wine
 industry by encouraging economic development associated with wine tasting and wine
 country tourism. The study found that "the secret to establishing Yamhill County as
 the wine-tasting capital of Oregon is the creation of attractive, visitor-oriented
 facilities." (INTRA Study, page 4-11). The study noted that "as the local wine
 industry gains momentum and as wine tasting in Yamhill County becomes a form of
 recreation, there will be a pressing need for additional overnight accommodations and
 dining opportunities in the County." (INTRA Study, page 2-2). The study also found
 that "there is a growing need for additional facilities to serve the small meeting and

” Ordinance 790                              aa                                       8/15/08
                                                                                 Film 91
                                                                                   0164

conference market." (INTRA Study, page 4-20). The study concluded that the
county's wine industry was a significant tourism amenity and that the county should
attempt to meet the identified needs and economic opportunities presented by the
growth of the wine industry by locating a small destination resort in the wine country
area. One of the locations identified for the proposed resort was the Red Hills of
Dundee, where the subject property is located. (INTRA Study, page 6-1).

         Eighteen years later, the Board finds that the needs and economic opportunities
identified by the 1988 study have still gone largely unmet. Although there has
certainly been a proliferation of bed and breakfast establishments in the wine country
area, there has been no development similar to the "destination" wine country hotel
that was proposed in 1988. As discussed in more detail below, a hotel of this type will
fill a particular niche of overnight accommodation need that has never been met by
Yamhill County, which is the reason why so many visitors to Yamhill County's world-
class wineries only make day trips to the county, staying at nicer hotels in Portland
instead. The Board of Commissioners finds that this unfortunate situation creates one
of the "reasons" that justifies the proposed exception. As stated in the testimony of
Tim Harmon of Auberge du Soleil, and repeated by Commissioner Stern during
deliberations, "Yamhill County wines are known as some of the finest wines in the
world, and they deserve a world class resort that compliments and supports them."

        The need identified by the 1988 study was also well-described in the oral and
written testimony of many individuals who have appeared before the planning
commission inthis matter. As explained.in.the correspondence from Dr. Eric. Fruits of
ECONorthwest dated May 17, 2006, multiple parties, including opponents of the
application, testified regarding the existing need for a hotel of this type in Yamhill
County. One such individual is Jack Czarnecki, the owner and chef of the Joel Palmer
House Restaurant in Dayton. Mr. Czarnecki is a nationally recognized and well-
respected chef who is currently a director of Distinguished Restaurants of North
America, a board member of the American Institute of Wine and Food, and a founding
member of the Society of American Cuisine. Since opening in 1997, the Joel Palmer
House has become nationally recognized as one of the best restaurants not just in
Yamhill County, but in all of the Pacific Northwest. In his capacity as chef and
proprietor of a nationally acclaimed restaurant in Dayton, Mr. Czarnecki has the
opportunity to interact with hundreds of guests who travel to Yamhill County to
experience the food and wine of the region. In correspondence to the planning
commission dated May 17, 2006, Mr. Czarnecki testified as follows:

          "We see many of the tourists who visit this county. Most of them
          visiting from around the world as well as from around the country are
          coming for the world class pinot noir produced here. These are travelers

Ordinance 790                                 al                                       8/15/06
                                                                                          Film 94
                                                                                           0165

          who frequently visit the wine growing areas of France, Spain, Germany,
          Italy, and California. They are puzzled that we do not have a world
          class facility for accommodating these individuals who spend hundreds
          if not thousands of dollars annually on wine. Many of these visitors are
          restaurateurs who carry the wines in their establishments. But where do
          they stay? Indeed we have many fine B&Bs in the area, but that type of
          accommodation is NOT acceptable for many of these guests who are
          more comfortable with the amenities a small hotel provides. Amenities
          are key here because these individuals are used to luxury
          accommodations, not motel-type creature comforts. Any issue of Wine
          Spectator will easily illustrate the types of small hotels prevalent in these
          other wine areas. Thus, Yamhill County is ata COMPETITIVE
          DISADVANTAGE when it comes to competing with those areas for
          accommodations. Our own Yamhill County Visitors Association tried
          to enact a room tax to use for promotion of our great county but was
          turned down. Opponents averred that other methods could be used to
          promote this area. Well, here is one of those methods - the building of a
          small luxury hotel to strengthen the magnet of this area to attract more
          tourists. It is a shame how many of these tourist come down for a day
          because we do not have what they consider proper accommodations.
          They are staying at the Vineyard Suites, The Heathman, The Benson,
          etc. — all quality, UPSCALE, hotels an hour away!      They should be
          staying here and spending their dollars here."

          Similar testimony was provided by Paul Hart of Rex Hill Winery, who stated in
correspondence dated May 18, 2006:

          "Our winery is visited by more than 40,000 people each year and the two
          most frequent non-wine questions we get from are visitors are where can
          I eat and where can we sleep nearby. The first question is being
          answered by the development of several first rate restaurants to which
          we are proud to send our visitors. The answer to the second question is
          much harder, especially if the guests are looking for first class
          accommodations. Although the many local Bed and Breakfasts provide
          a satisfying and comfortable experience for their guests, the few which
          can provide truly first class experience are usually reserved,

          "The result for many guests now is that they stay in a hotel in Portland and
          commute to the Yamhill County wine country during the day."

Ordinance 790                                   --                                        8/1 S/G8
                                                                                 Film 91
                                                                                  0166

        The Board agrees with the above-quoted testimony and finds that this
application provides Yamhill County with a significant and timely opportunity for
economic development by providing a major boost to the county's wine industry in
general, and the wine tourism industry in particular. The Board finds that approval of
this application furthers economic development in Yamhill County, consistent with
the requirements of Goal 9, which requires the county to provide adequate
opportunities for a variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare and
prosperity of the citizens of Oregon. As addressed in more detail in the Board's
findings below regarding the ESEE requirements, the new hotel will encourage
economic development in Yamhill County by stimulating the vineyard, winery, and
tourism industries in the County, and providing new employment opportunities at the
hotel and restaurant. The construction of the proposed hotel will also result in a
number of temporary construction jobs that will benefit the county.

        The Board also finds that ORS 197.340(1) must be considered in this
application. ORS 197.340(1) provides that local governments, as well as both DLCD
and LCDC, "shall give the goals equal weight in any matter in which the goals are
required to be applied." The Board finds this to mean that Goal 9 has as much weight
as Goals 3, 4 or 14 in this proceeding.   The Board finds, based on substantial evidence
in the whole record, that the economic development potential of this application for
the county outweighs any concerns regarding Goals 3, 4 or 14. Specifically, the
significant economic advantages associated with the proposed hotel outweigh
concerns regarding the placement of an "urban" use on rural land, or the loss of 12
acres of EFU-zoned land that is not commercially viable for agricultural production
and has not been in agricultural production for at least ten years.

        The Board also agrees with the evidence submitted by ECONorthwest and the
applicants regarding the characteristics of the proposed hotel that are necessary to
meet the needs of the identified wine country tourists — those characteristics are
similar to a private country estate that will also provide a complete wine country
experience, including a rural setting among vineyards and proximity to wineries with
tasting rooms. This conclusion is consistent with the findings of the 1988 INTRA
study, which identified the Red Hills of Dundee as a potential location for the .
proposed wine country resort. It is also consistent with evidence submitted by the
applicants regarding the three successful Napa Valley hotels that their proposal is
modeled after. Based on this evidence, and as addressed in more detail below, the
Board finds that the proposed hotel is entirely dependent upon critical locational
factors, including proximity to wineries with on-site tasting rooms, vineyards, and
other wine tourism opportunities, relative seclusion resulting from distance from
major highways and population centers, and an idyllic rural setting with expansive
views of the surrounding countryside and nearby vineyards. These locational

Ordinance 790                                -~                                       8/15/08
                                                                                    Film 91
                                                                                     0167

requirements, together with the identified need for a hotel of this kind in Yamhill
County, the county's need to expand and diversify its economy and promote its
growing wine industry, and other reasons contained in the materials submitted by the
applicants and addressed in these findings, provide the reasons that justify the
exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14 to allow siting of the proposed wine country hotel.
Also, the Board finds that the subject property has not been in commercial agricultural
use for at least 10 years, in part because elevations on the site are too high for quality
grape production, that the current property owners have been unable to sell the
property for agricultural purposes, and that the property is not in farm or forest tax
deferral. Therefore, the removal of this 12 acres of land from agricultural zoning will
not have any discernable impact on the county's agricultural economy.

        Additional reasons supporting the development of the proposed hotel and the
required goal exceptions are set forth in the applicants’ materials, including the
analysis provided by ECONorthwest. The Board expressly adopts and incorporates as
part of its findings the following materials submitted by the applicants: (1) the
application narrative dated April 24, 2006; (2) the ECONorthwest analysis entitled
"Characteristics of a Luxury Wine Country Hotel in Yamhill County, Oregon," dated
April 24, 2006; (3) the alternatives analysis submitted by the applicants dated April
24, 2006; (4) correspondence provided by Dr. Eric Fruits of ECONorthwest dated
May 17, 2006, May 25, 2006 and June 19, 2006, together with all attachments
including the 1988 INTRA study; (5) correspondence from Perkins Coie dated May
18, 2006, together with its five attachments; and (6) correspondence from Perkins
Coie dated June 19,2006, together with its six attachments. To the extent there is any
discrepancy between the above-referenced materials adopted by the Board and these
findings, the express findings of the Board shall govern.

          "(3)   To approve an exception under section (2) of this rule, a county
          must also show:

          "(a)   That Goal 2, Part II(c)(1) and (c)(2) are met by showing that the
                 proposed urban development cannot be reasonably accommodated
                 in or through expansion of existing urban growth boundaries or by
                 intensification of development in existing rural communities;

          As explained above, the Board finds that the proposed development has
specific locational requirements that cannot be reasonably accommodated in an urban
area or an existing rural community. The type of hotel accommodations required to
meet the needs of the targeted wine country tourists include characteristics similar to a
private country estate, in a rural setting among vineyards. The Board agrees with the
applicants' alternatives analysis, and finds that the proposed hotel requires at least 35

Ordinance 790                                 --                                          8/15/08
                                                                                        Film 94
                                                                                          0168

acres in a quiet and idyllic rural setting, which provides privacy, serenity, expansive
views of the surrounding countryside, as well as close proximity to vineyards,
wineries, wine tasting rooms and related uses that are compatible with a relaxing wine
country "getaway" vacation. These necessary site characteristics are a fundamental
part of the success of this type of hotel, as demonstrated by the success of the three
Napa Valley hotels described by the applicants in their June 19, 2006 memorandum
entitled "Characteristics of Napa Valley Hotels: Meadowood, Auberge du Soleil and
Calistoga Ranch." As described in that memorandum and the accompanying aerial
photographs and site descriptions, the specific type of hotel development being
proposed precludes a location within an urban area:

          "The type of facility being proposed by the applicant would be unique to
          Oregon, and is modeled after three hotels that are in a very rare class of
          their own, which cannot be compared to similarly sized hotels that are
          located in cities. These are luxurious "getaway" hotels that are specifically
          designed and located so as to provide guests with a beautiful and secluded
          environment, where they can spend several days in the heart of wine
          country, enjoying local wines as well as an excellent on-site restaurant, spa
          facilities, and other amenities. These hotels are unique in their extremely
          high standards of service, world-class amenities, and their idyllic rural
          location amidst the vineyards and forests of Napa Valley. These
          characteristics are also the necessary characteristics of the applicant's
          proposal, which, like the three hotels considered in this memo, could never
          succeed if located adjacent to a highway or in’a noisy urban environment.

          "As shown on the attached photographs and tables, the applicant's proposed
          site and development characteristics are neatly identical to those of
          Meadowood, Auberge du Soleil, and Calistoga Ranch.        Each are located in
          a beautiful and secluded rural setting with expansive views of the
          countryside, in close proximity to vineyards and wineries, on a minimum of
          33 acres, and each provide the types of amenities for guests that are
          expected at hotels of this type.

          "Many opponents of the application have argued that there is no reason the
          proposed hotel could not be located in an urban area. While a run-of-the
          mill 50-room hotel might be successful somewhere within the Newberg
          UGB, the proposal is to create a hotel that is targeted at the same ‘core’ wine
          tourist demographic as the three Napa Valley locations. Like Meadowood,
          Auberge du Soleil, and Calistoga Ranch, the proposed use requires a serene
          and secluded rural environment. As explained in the written testimony of
          Tim Harmon, manager of Auberge du Soleil: 'a quiet rural setting among

Ordinance 790                                  a                                          8/15/06
                                                                                          Film 91
                                                                                           0169

          vineyards is a necessary element of success for a wine country hotel of this
          type. This type of luxury resort requires seclusion, views, and ambiance
          that simply could not be found in an urban environment.”

          The subject property is unique in that it provides all of the necessary site-
related requirements. The subject property is in the heart of Yamhill County's wine
country, within 20 minutes’ driving time of more than 20 wineries, including
approximately 12 nearby wineries with the desired vineyard setting and on-site tasting
rooms, and within walking distance of two. At approximately 65 acres, it is large
enough to meet the site size requirement. The property also provides a quiet rural
setting with beautiful hilltop views of the countryside, and includes enough acreage to
ensure that the hotel will be surrounded by landscaping, open space, and other
resource-related uses that will be compatible with the needs of the hotel guests. Any
site that did not include these features would not provide the necessary features to
meet the required need and would not result in a successful project. Additionally, the
Board finds that approving an exception for the subject property allows the proposed
hotel to be developed without taking any viable agricultural uses out of production.

       The Board also relies on the testimony placed in the record by ECONorthwest
and by Tim Harmon of Auberge du Soleil. In correspondence dated May 25, 2006,
Mr. Harmon explained:

          "In my experiences with hotels of this type, the 35-acre site size identified
          in the application is the minimum size that would be required to operate the
          proposed hotel with associated restaurant, spa, meeting facilities and
          grounds. A site of this size, which is consistent with our other properties, is
          essential to create a low density project that is both environmentally
          sensitive and that will have little or not impact to the surrounding area.

          "Also, as I explained at the hearing, a quiet rural setting among vineyards is
          a necessary element of success for a wine country hotel of this type. This
          type of luxury resort requires seclusion, views, and ambiance that simply
          could not be found in an urban environment. A luxury hotel simply will not
          work if it is located in a town or city location."

      This issue is also addressed in the correspondence from ECONorthwest dated
May 18, 2006 and May 25, 2006, as well as their initial analysis dated April 24, 2006.
The May 18, 2006 letter explains:

          "The placement of existing luxury wine country hotels indicates that tourists
          demand more isolated rural settings that foster a feeling of seclusion and
          relaxation. For example, Auberge du Soleil and Meadowood are located on

Ordinance 790                                   --                           —               8/15/86
                                                                                       Film 91
                                                                                        0170

          private vineyard estates in rural locations; Calistoga Ranch is located in a
          secluded canyon with an on-site vineyard. No 4- or 5-star wine country
          hotels are located in urbanized areas.

          "ECONorthwest notes in its report that nearly two-thirds of the B&B rooms
          available in Yamhill County are located outside of urbanized areas. This is
          a clear indicator that B&B tourists heavily favor non-urbanized settings for
          their overnight visits to Yamhill County. The most widely cited exemplar
          of luxury accommodations in Yamhill County, the Black Walnut Inn and
          Vineyard, is in a ‘private and comfortable setting,' 'set amid vineyards,
          orchards and acres of forest.

          "(Tim] Harmon, CEO of Auberge Resorts testified on May 4, 2006, noted
          that all of Auberge's properties were located outside of urban areas and that
          a ‘city location defeats a resort.’ Indeed, he testified, 'If it would work in a
          city, then we would do it.’ He admitted that rural areas have challenges of
          their own, specifically higher building costs. However, the demand for
          rural locations and the rates such demand can generate, makes rural luxury
          development financially feasible.”

          For the reasons described above, and additional reasons provided by the
applicants and the materials submitted by ECONorthwest, the Board agrees that the
proposed development could not be reasonably accommodated in or through
expansion of existing UGBs, or in existing rural communities, which are generally
located along busy state highways. The applicant has provided substantial evidence to
support a finding that the specific requirements for the proposed luxury wine country
hotel include certain features, amenities, views, and a location that would preclude an
urban setting. The Board also adopts and incorporates by reference its findings in
Sections IX.C and D below addressing the Division 4 exception rules as part of these
findings addressing the Division 14 exception rules.

          (b)    That Goal 2, Part H(c)(3) is met by showing that the long-term
          environmental, economic, social and energy consequences resulting from
          urban development at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce
          adverse impacts are not significantly more adverse than would typically result
         Jrom the same proposal being located on other undeveloped rural lands,
          considering:

          (A)    Whether the amount of land included within the boundaries of the
                 proposed urban development is appropriate, and

Ordinance 790                                   -                                            8/15/06
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                      0171

          (B)   Whether urban development is limited by the air, water, energy and land
                resources at or available to the proposed site, and whether urban
                development at the proposed site will adversely affect the air, water,
                energy and land resources of the surrounding area.

          The Board finds that the long-term environmental, economic, social and energy
consequences resulting from locating the hotel on the subject property will not be
significantly more adverse than locating the hotel on other undeveloped rural lands.
The Board notes that this rule does not create a particularly high standard, but simply
requires a determination that the ESEE consequences resulting from the proposed
hotel “are not significantly more adverse" than would result from the hotel being
placed on another undeveloped rural lands.

     The analysis required by this section of the rule is addressed in the applicants'
ESEE analysis, which the Board adopts and incorporates as part of its findings.
Specifically, the Board adopts and incorporates the following: (1) the applicants'
alternatives analysis dated April 24, 2006; (2) the applicants’ revised ESEE analysis
dated May 18, 2006; and (3) correspondence from Perkins Coie dated May 18, 2006
and June 19, 2006, which provide additional analysis of the ESEE consequences
arising out of specific alternative sites identified by opponents Sid Friedman of 1000
Friends of Oregon and Kathy Miller. To the extent there is any discrepancy between
the above-referenced materials adopted by the Board and these findings, the express
findings of the Board shall govern.

       As an initial matter, the Board finds that the alternative locations on resource
land identified by project opponents Kathy Miller, in her letter dated May 2, 2006, and
Sid Friedman of 1000 Friends of Oregon in his letter dated March 2, 2006 were not
identified or described with sufficient specificity for the applicants or the Board to
properly analyze the ESEE consequences associated with those properties as
compared to the subject property. The Board agrees with the applicants’ statements in
the May 18, 2006 revised ESEE analysis that "Ms. Miller has not provided sufficiently
specific facts regarding why she believes [the sites] would have significantly fewer
adverse impacts to require the applicant to provide a detailed evaluation," and that
"Mr. Friedman has not provided detailed information explaining why the [sites] would
have less adverse ESEE consequences than the subject property." Despite the lack of
information provided by Ms. Miller, the applicants undertook their own investigation
of the identified parcels, and submitted evaluations of those properties in
correspondence to the Board dated June 19, 2006, which evaluations are adopted and
incorporated by the Board as part of these findings. The Board also expressly adopts
the applicants’ analysis regarding the sites referenced by Mr. Friedman in the revised
ESEE analysis dated May 18, 2006.

Ordinance 790                                --                                       8/15/06   ~
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                       0172

        The Board finds that the ESEE impacts that will result from siting the proposed
hotel on the subject property are not significantly more adverse than if the hotel were
located on other undeveloped rural lands. As discussed above in the Board's findings
regarding other subsections of the Goal 14 rule, the proposed wine country hotel is
extremely dependent on certain critical locational factors, including proximity to
wineries with on-site tasting rooms, vineyards, and other wine tourism opportunities,
relative seclusion resulting from distance from major highways and population
centers, and an idyllic rural setting with expansive views of the surrounding
countryside and nearby vineyards. The applicants’ alternatives analysis and ESEE
analysis reviewed the potential alternative sites based on three criteria that are
essential to the viability of the proposed hotel: (1) minimum site size of 35 acres set
among or adjacent to vineyards; (2) maximum 20-minute travel time from the highest
concentration of vineyards and wineries with tourist amenities; and (3) accessible to
improved local and regional transportation facilities while not negatively affected by
noise or view of such facilities.

       As explained in the applicants' ESEE analysis and the materials submitted by
ECONorthwest, the ultimate success of the hotel, and the resulting economic benefits
to Yamhill County and its residents, are entirely dependent on these characteristics,
which are all present at the subject property. Therefore, the economic aspect of the
ESEE analysis weighs heavily in favor of the subject property, rather than other
undeveloped rural lands that do not provide the same necessary characteristics,
including the alternative locations identified in the materials submitted by Kathy
Miller and 1000 Friends of Oregon:

        Evidence provided by ECONorthwest indicates that the proposed hotel will
provide seasonal employment for a minimum of 50 employees using an approximate
average of one staff person to support each hotel room. In addition, the hotel is
intended to support convention and meeting facilities as well as banquet rooms for
private events such as weddings in the off season. The proposed hotel is expected to
facilitate sale and consumption of wines produced at local wineries and will also
facilitate and extend the name recognition of Yamhill County wineries stimulating
sales in other national and international markets. The Board finds that in other
locations such as Napa Valley, California, such wine country hotels also support
sightseeing, shopping in local shops and art galleries, antiquing, and dining at
restaurants in nearby areas. Consequently, the proposed hotel will have a positive
economic impact on nearby commercial and retail establishments. Also, the hotel will
provide additional employment, which will make more money available in Yamhill
County for commercial transactions generally.

Ordinance 790                               ad                                        8/15/06
                                                                                    Film 94
                                                                                     0173

        The economic effect of the hotel on Yamhill County local wineries will be very
positive due to increased use of tasting rooms and increased exposure of the local
product to the wine drinkers irrespective of the site selected. The interaction between
hotel guests and the local wineries, and the resulting economic benefit derived from
that interaction, are greater for the subject property than other potential locations in
other parts of the county, because of the site's unique proximity to so many wineries.
The targeted clientele of the hotel will include wine tourists from all over the country
and the world, which will provide increased visibility, recognition and distribution of
Yamhill County wines in the global marketplace. As noted at the hearing before the
Board, the national and international wine-related press have been inquiring with the
applicants about the status of the proposed hotel, and an article about the proposal has
already been published in Wine Spectator magazine.

          The Board finds that the hotel will provide significant economic benefits to
Yamhill County, so long as it is successful. As described elsewhere in these findings,
in order to be successful the hotel requires certain locational characteristics including
a tural setting among vineyards with expansive views of the countryside, and
proximity to vineyards and wineries with tasting rooms. As explained in the
applicants’ revised ESEE analysis dated May 18, 2006 and the correspondence from
Perkins Coie dated June 19, 2006, and as indicated on the maps submitted by the
applicants on April 24, 2006 and May 18, 2006, the majority of alternative locations in
rural areas identified by the opponents lack the requisite proximity to wineries with ~
tasting rooms and other tourist facilities. In particular, the two properties owned by
Sid Friedman of 1000 Friends of Oregon are too distant from Highway 99W and too
remote from the identified concentration of wineries among vineyards with tasting
rooms and other tourist facilities. Also, uncontroverted evidence in the record
indicates that access to the Friedman properties is sub-standard, requiring travel on an
unpaved gravel road used by logging trucks. As explained in the applicants’ materials,
the alternative sites identified by Ms. Miller are also either located in areas that have
no view, are too distant from wine country, or are otherwise located in areas that
would be incompatible with or inappropriate for the proposed luxury hotel.

        The Board accepts the applicants’ analysis of the relative environmental, social
and energy consequences of siting the proposed hotel at the subject property rather
than at other identified rural locations. The environmental, social and energy
consequences related to the proposed site will not be significantly different from other
potential locations on resource land. The amount of land proposed to be included
within the boundaries of the proposed development is appropriate, because the
applicant is requesting an exception only affecting an approximately 12-acre portion
of the entire 65-acre site, which is the minimum amount of land required for the
footprint of the hotel, and will allow the remainder of the subject property to remain in

Ordinance 790                                 --                                         8/15/86
                                                                                       Film 91
                                                                                         o174

EFU zoning and to be placed in agricultural use. The applicants propose to plant the
southern portions of the property in grapes, which would enhance the wine country
atmosphere and would also result in a net increase in the amount of land being put to
agricultural use on the subject property.

        The Board finds that the site is not limited by soil, air, water or energy capacity
nor will the proposed use adversely affect air, water, energy and land resources of the
surrounding area. The applicants have submitted substantial evidence regarding the
feasibility of obtaining the necessary permits for water rights, which will include
monitoring provisions designed to assure that a new well for the hotel will not
adversely affect other water rights in the area. The Board is attaching a condition of
approval requiring that the applicant must obtain a water right for the hotel within
three years after any appeals of this decision are resolved; in the event such water right
is not obtained, the applicants shall be required to initiate necessary map amendments
to return the property to EFU zoning.

          (c)     That Goal 2, Part Il(c)(4) is met by showing that the proposed urban
          uses are compatible with adjacent uses or will be so rendered through
          measures designed to reduce adverse impacts considering:

          (A)   Whether urban development at the proposed site detracts from the
                ability of existing cities and service districts to provide services; and

          (B)    Whether the potential for continued resource management of land at
                present levels surrounding and nearby the site proposed for urban
                development is assured.

        The Board finds that the proposed hotel will be compatible with adjacent uses,
or will be rendered compatible through measures designed to reduce any adverse
impacts. The proposed hotel will only require approximately 12 acres of the 65-acre
property. As indicated on the applicant's proposed site plan, the hotel will be located
toward the center of the parcel, away from surrounding adjacent uses, which will
create buffers that will minimize external impacts. The Board is also imposing
conditions of approval that will reduce potential impacts. The adjacent Timmons
Quarry property to the northwest is being purchased by the developer of the proposed
hotel, and the Board is attaching a condition of approval requiring that the site will no
longer be used as a quarry. Property to the north is forested, but is not being managed
for commercial forestry purposes. There are vineyards and wineries adjacent to the
property on the south and west, and a bed and breakfast called Wine Country Farms is
located to the southwest, across Breyman Orchards Road. The Board is attaching a
condition of approval stating that it is not the responsibility of adjacent agricultural

Ordinance 790                                 ial                                           8/15/06
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                      0175

operators to modify their existing accepted practices to accommodate the hotel and/or
its guests.

        Regarding the compatibility of the proposed hotel with adjacent agricultural
uses, the Board finds that the applicants’ proposed wine country hotel is targeted at a
specific demographic of relatively more affluent "core" wine consumers, who are the
most likely wine country tourists. As explained in the ECONorthwest analysis and
materials cited therein, these more affluent tourists seek small hotels and resorts,
which offer more privacy and a wider array of services and amenities, rather than bed
and breakfast-type accommodations. In fact, according to the profile prepared for the
Washington State Business and Tourism Office titled "Washington Wine Country
Visitor Profile 2003," wine country tourists prefer hotels over B&Bs by a ten-to-one
ratio. The specific demographic characteristics of wine country tourists and the types
of accommodations and amenities they seek are addressed in detail in the April 24,
2006 ECONorthwest analysis at pages 2-4. For such tourists, a vacation to wine
country is typically an opportunity to get away from stressful jobs and noisy urban
environments, and seek refuge in a quiet, relaxing, upscale environment where they
can enjoy fine wines and food, and also pursue their interest in wine by visiting
wineries with tasting rooms and related facilities.

        As documented in the applicants’ submittals and elsewhere in these findings,
the identified wine country tourists are seeking resort-hotel types of accommodations
that include characteristics similar to a private country estate and also provide a
complete wine country experience, including a setting among vineyards. and proximity.
to wineries with vineyards and tasting rooms. The Board finds that guests using the
hotel will expect to share the environment and atmosphere of the vineyards and wine
country, and that agricultural practices associated with wine production will be
accepted, and even welcomed, as part of the overall wine country experience. Guests
in the targeted demographic will understand the wine industry, and will expect and
accept the necessary agricultural practices associated with growing and harvesting
grapes, which practices will actually enhance their overall wine country experience.

          On this point, the Board also relies upon evidence submitted into the record on
May 25, 2006 by Tim Harmon of Auberge du Soleil, which is one of the Napa Valley
hotels the applicants’ proposal is modeled after. Auberge du Soleil is located
immediately adjacent to the vineyards of Rutherford Ranch and Rutherford Hill, As
stated by Mr. Harmon in his letter:

          "I understand that several opponents of the project have argued that the
          proposed hotel would be inherently incompatible with agricultural
          practices on nearby vineyards, because the guests will be bothered by

Ordinance 790                                 -                                           8/15/06
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                       0176

          noise and activities required for those operations. However, guests at a
          hotel of this type are typically looking for a legitimate wine country
          experience, and to the extent there are agricultural activities going on,
          for example, at the adjacent vineyards of Domaine Drouhin Oregon, it is
          my experience that such activities will only enhance the experience of
          the guests. For example, the Auberge du Soleil is directly adjacent to
          two wineries, Rutherford Ranch and Rutherford Hill. The relationship
          is mutually beneficial: we provide a place for their guests to stay and
          we feature their wines at our restaurant while they provide our guests
          with a nearby wine country experience."

          The Board also relies on correspondence submitted on June 19, 2006 by the
General Manager of Rutherford Ranch Winery, which explains that since 1985
Auberge du Soleil has been operating immediately adjacent to Rutherford Ranch, and
since that time there have been no conflicts between the hotel and winery operations,
and that “it has been our experience that guests at a hotel of this type are specifically
seeking the opportunity to interact with the wine country atmosphere, and the
proximity to our winery and vineyards only serve to enhance that experience."

        Several opponents have generally raised the possibility of conflicts between the
hotel and agricultural practices, citing in particular noise cannons that are used in
some vineyard operations to scare birds away from the vines. The Board notes that
there has been no evidence put into the record regarding whether Domaine Drouhin or
other nearby.vineyard owners actually use noise cannons on their-property, and
therefore these alleged concerns are purely speculative. The Board also notes that, if
such noise cannons are actually used on property near the proposed hotel, those
devices are typically used only during relatively short periods of the year near harvest,
and in any event do not create an inherent incompatibility with the hotel.

       Regarding potential impacts from traffic, access to the site will be from the
south on Breyman Orchards Road. As concluded in the TIA prepared by Lancaster
Engineering, the proposed hotel will generate only approximately 44 trips during the
peak hour on Saturday, and there are no resulting capacity issues on Breyman
Orchards Road. The Board finds that traffic generated by the proposed hotel will be
compatible with other uses to the south and west.

        The Board finds that the proposed urban development on the subject property
will have no impact on the ability of existing cities and service districts to provide
services. Also, for the reasons stated above and in the materials adopted and
incorporated as part of these findings, the Board finds that continued resource
management of nearby land will not be affected by the proposed hotel. The proposed

Ordinance 790                                  oad                                       8/15/08
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                        0177

  map amendment and exceptions only apply to approximately 12 acres of the 65-acre
. site, and there will be significant buffers between the hotel and adjacent agricultural
uses. The nature of the proposed use is very low-impact with regard to adjacent uses,
and will be sensitive to the needs of nearby vineyards due to the interests of the
clientele, who are specifically seeking a "wine country" vacation. Also, as noted
above, the Board is imposing a condition of approval requiring that it is not the
responsibility of adjacent agricultural operators to modify their existing accepted
practices to accommodate the hotel and/or its guests. In response to concerns raised
by one of the opponents, hotel guests will obviously not be permitted to trespass onto
any adjacent vineyard properties.                                              ,
           (d)    That an appropriate level of public facilities and services are
                  likely to be provided in a timely and efficient manner.

           The applicants have established that any necessary public services are
available. Water and waste treatment systems will be provided through private
systems. The applicants have submitted substantial evidence in the form of testimony
from Newton Consultants, Inc. regarding the feasibility of providing water and from
Environmental Management Systems regarding the feasibility of on-site wastewater
treatment at the site. The Board finds that testimony from water consultants Newton
Consultants, Inc. supports a finding that it is feasible to provide appropriate levels of
water for the proposed use in a timely and efficient manner. The Board adopts this
finding of feasibility based on all of the oral testimony provided at the hearings by
Newton Consulting representatives, as well.as.the written. submittals in-the record.
from Newton Consulting dated April 20, 2006 and May 25, 2006. The Board is
attaching conditions of approval requiring that the applicant must obtain a water right
that can provide adequate water for the hotel within three years after any appeals of
this decision are resolved; in the event such water right is not obtained, the applicants
shall be required to initiate necessary map amendments to return the property to EFU
zoning. The Board also finds that any other necessary public facilities and services,
including fire protection, can also be readily provided.

       The Board finds that OAR 660-014-0040(3)(e) is not applicable, because no
urban growth boundary or establishment of a new city is proposed.

          Cc.     OAR 660-004-0020(4) — Reasons Justifying the Exceptions

        As explained above, the Board finds that by demonstrating compliance with the
criteria of OAR Chapter 660, Division 14, the applicants have satisfied all applicable
requirements and provided the necessary reasons to support approval of the requested
exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14 under the provisions of the rules and LUBA's opinions

 Ordinance 790                                  -                                       8/15/86
                                                                                    Film 91
                                                                                      0178

in Caine and DLCD v. Umatilla County. However, in the event that LUBA elects to
reverse its earlier decisions and conclude that the Division 4 rules must also be applied
for purposes of obtaining exceptions to Goals 3 and 4, the Board includes the
following findings.

        OAR 660-004-0020(4) and Goal 2, Part II(c) establish 4 factors to be addressed
when taking a "reasons" exception to a Statewide Planning Goal. Those factors and
related findings are set out below. The Board also adopts and incorporates by
reference the reasons set forth in its findings in Section IX.B above regarding the
Division 14 rules as part of its findings addressing the Division 4 rules.

          (a)   Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable
                goals should not apply. The exception shall set forth the facts
                and assumptions used as the basis for determining that a state
                policy embodied in a goal should not apply to specific properties
                or situations including the amount of land for the use being
                planned and why the use requires a location on resource land.

        The state policy contained in Goals 3 and 4 provide for the protection of
agricultural and forested lands. Nevertheless, the Board finds that the specific
locational requirements for a hotel of this type, as described in Section [X.B of these
findings, do not provide the opportunity to site the hotel within an existing exception
area or within an urban growth boundary. The proposal will further the economic
development of Yamhill County, and will specifically bolster the county's burgeoning
wine industry. The proposed hotel will also encourage the use of locally produced
products and will generate new employment opportunities. The requested exception
affects only approximately 12 acres of the 65-acre site, and that land has not been used
for agricultural production in at least 10 years. The high elevation of the property
precludes commercial vineyard uses. The proposed exception will not take any land
that is currently in agricultural use out of production.

        As explained in the economic analysis and supplemental materials prepared by
ECONorthwest, despite the fact that Oregon (and Yamhill County in particular), is the
home to many internationally known wineries that produce world-class wines, Oregon
lacks a full-service "destination" hotel in the wine country area of the type found in —
Napa Valley, such as Meadowood, Auberge du Soleil and Calistoga Ranch. The
proposed hotel will generate significant economic benefits to the County. At present,
wine country tourists who decide to visit Yamhill County on a vacation are far more
likely to stay in Portland than in Yamhill County, and must make at least a 60-mile
round trip drive in order to visit wineries. In addition to depriving Yamhill County of
tourist-related income, this situation also results in higher vehicle miles traveled and

Ordinance 790                                a                                         8/15/06
                                                                                  Film 91
                                                                                   0179

carbon emissions. As stated in the ECONorthwest study, "millions of potential
tourism dollars are likely going unspent in Yamhill County because Oregon's wine
country is inconvenient and does not have adequate accommodations for wine country
tourists."

          The applicants’ proposed wine country hotel is targeted at a specific
demographic of relatively more affluent "core" wine consumers, who are the most
likely wine country tourists. As explained in the ECONorthwest analysis and
materials cited therein, these more affluent tourists seek small hotels and resorts,
which offer more privacy and a wider array of services and amenities, rather than bed
and breakfast-type accommodations. In fact, according to the profile prepared for the
Washington State Business and Tourism Office titled "Washington Wine Country
Visitor Profile 2003," wine country tourists prefer hotels over B&Bs by a ten-to-one
ratio. The specific demographic characteristics of wine country tourists and the types
of accommodations and amenities they seek are addressed in detail in the April 24,
2006 ECONorthwest analysis at pages 2-4. For such tourists, a vacation to wine
country is typically an opportunity to get away from stressful jobs and noisy urban
environments, and seek refuge in a quiet, relaxing, upscale environment where they
can enjoy fine wines and food, and also pursue their interest in wine by visiting
wineries with tasting rooms and related facilities. Wine country tourists are currently
well-served by Napa Valley hotels such as Auberge du Soleil, Meadowood and
Calistoga Ranch, which provide this type of wine country experience in a quiet rural
atmosphere among vineyards and near wineries.

      The type of hote! accommodations required to meet the needs of the identified
wine country tourists include characteristics similar to a private country estate that will
also provide a complete wine country experience, including a rural setting among
vineyards and proximity to wineries with tasting rooms. The proposed hotel is
entirely dependent upon critical locational factors, including proximity to wineries
with on-site tasting rooms, vineyards, and other wine tourism opportunities, relative
seclusion resulting from distance from major highways and population centers, and an
idyllic rural setting with expansive views of the surrounding countryside and nearby
vineyards. These locational requirements, together with the identified need for a hotel
of this kind in Yamhill County, the county's need to expand and diversify its economy
and promote its growing wine industry, and other reasons contained in the materials
submitted by the applicants and addressed in these findings, provide the reasons that
justify the exceptions to Goals 3, 4 and 14 to allow siting of the proposed wine
country hotel. Also, the Board finds that the subject property has not been in © = >
commercial agricultural use for at least 10 years, in part because elevations on the site
are too high for quality grape production, that the current property owners have been
unable to sell the property for agricultural purposes, and that the property is not in

Ordinance 790                                 ad                                            8/15/06
                                                                                        Film 91
                                                                                         0180

farm or forest tax deferral. Therefore, the removal of this 12 acres of land from
agricultural zoning will not have any discernable impact on the county's agricultural
economy.

        Reasons supporting the development of the proposed hotel are set forth in the
applicants’ materials, including the analysis provided by ECONorthwest. The Board
expressly adopts and incorporates as part of its findings the following materials
submitted by the applicants: (1) the application narrative dated April 24, 2006; (2) the
ECONorthwest analysis titled "Characteristics of a Luxury Wine Country Hotel in
Yamhill County, Oregon," dated April 24, 2006; (3) the alternatives analysis
submitted by the applicants dated April 24, 2006; (4) correspondence provided by Dr.
Eric Fruits of ECONorthwest dated May 17, 2006, May 25, 2006 and June 19, 2006,
together with all attachments; (5) correspondence from Perkins Coie dated May 18,
2006, together with its five attachments; and (6) correspondence from Perkins Coie
dated June 19, 2006, together with its six attachments. To the extent there is any
discrepancy between the above-referenced materials adopted by the Board and these
findings, the express findings of the Board shall govern.

          The Board finds that this application provides Yamhill County with a
significant and timely opportunity for economic development and a major boost to the
county's wine industry in general, and the wine tourism industry in particular; these
economic advantages to the county outweigh the countervailing loss of a mere 12
acres of EFU-zoned land that is not viable for agricultural production and has not been
in agricultural production for at least ten years... The Board finds that the policies
embedded in Goal 3 and Goal 4 regarding protection of farm and forest land should
not apply to this proposed development, because it is a locationally dependent use that
can only be sited in a rural setting, outside of urban growth boundaries. This
locationally dependent use requires a minimum of 35 acres in an idyllic rural setting in
Yamhill County's wine country, but away from major highways, with expansive views
of the surrounding countryside and adjacent vineyards.

          (6)   — Areas which do not require an exception cannot reasonably
                  accommodate the use.

          This portion of the rule requires consideration of possible alternative locations
for the use that would not require a new exception; in other words, existing exception
areas or other locations inside an existing UGB. The rule provides that "economic
factors can be considered along with other relevant factors in determining that the use
cannot reasonably be accommodated in other areas." Regarding the required scope of
the alternatives analysis, OAR 660-004-0020(2)(b)(C) provides as follows:

Ordinance 790                                  -                                        8/15/06
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                          0181

          "Initially, a local government adopting an exception need assess only
          whether those similar types of areas in the vicinity could not reasonably
          accommodate the proposed use. Site specific comparisons are not
          required of a local government taking an exception, unless another party
          to the local proceeding can describe why there are specific sites that can
          more reasonably accommodate the proposed use. A detailed evaluation
          of specific alternative sites is thus not required unless such sites are
          specifically described with facts to support the assertion that the sites are
          more reasonable by another party during the local exceptions
          proceeding."

        Based on the requirements of this rule, the applicants prepared an alternatives
analysis dated April 24, 2006, which provides a broad review of similar types of areas
ranging from urban areas to exception areas, and applies certain specific locational
and site-related criteria as part of the analysis. The alternatives analysis includes an
attached table and maps that identify certain general and specific areas that were
considered as part of the applicants’ review, and applies the wine country hotel siting
criteria to those areas, concluding that none of those areas could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. The Board expressly adopts and incorporates the
applicants’ alternatives analysis dated April 24, 2006 and the attached table and maps
as part of the Board's findings under this criterion.

        As required by the above-quoted portion of OAR 660-004-0040(2)(b)(C),
where opponents of the project identified specific alternative sites with sufficient facts
to support their assertion that those sites are more reasonable, the applicants provided
a more detailed site-specific analysis. In addition to the April 24, 2006 alternatives
analysis, the applicants provided responses regarding specific alternative sites in the
ECONorthwest analysis titled "Characteristics of a Luxury Wine Country Hotel in
Yamhill County, Oregon," dated Aprii 24, 2006, and correspondence from Perkins
Coie dated May 18, 2006 and June 19, 2006. The Board expressly adopts and
incorporates these documents, as well as the attached. maps and other documents, as
part of the Board's findings. To the extent there is any discrepancy between the
above-referenced materials adopted by the Board and these findings, the express
findings of the Board shall govern.

        The geographic area for the applicants' alternatives analysis includes lands east
of Newberg to west of McMinnville, and south to Dayton and north to Yamhill. Land
categories within this area were evaluated against specific siting criteria for the wine
country hotel in order of the urbanization hierarchy: inside urban growth boundaries,
in county-zoned Recreational Commercial lands, and exception areas. This analysis
of alternative sites satisfies the underlying questions that must be addressed when

Ordinance 790                                   -                                           8/15/06
                                                                                Film 94
                                                                                 0182

concluding that "areas which do not require a new exception cannot reasonably
accommodate the use." As required by OAR 660-004-0020 Goal 2, Part IIc),
Exception Requirements (2)(b)(B)(i-iii), these questions are:

          (1)     Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated on nonresource
                  land that would not require an exception, including increasing the
                  density of uses on nonresource land?

          (ii)    Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated on resource land
                  that is already irrevocably committed to nonresource uses?

          (iti)   Can the proposed use be reasonably accommodated inside an urban
                  growth boundary?

        The Board finds that a wine country hotel is a distinct type of lodging product
that has distinct site-related characteristics. This finding is based on evidence in the
record established by the ECONorthwest study entitled "Characteristics of a Luxury
Wine Country Hotel in Yamhill County, Oregon," together with other evidence in the
record including but not limited to the applicants’ analyses of the site characteristics of
Auberge du Soleil, Meadowood and Calistoga Ranch in Napa Valley, supplemental
memoranda from ECONorthwest and the testimony of Tim Harmon of Auberge.
Generally, lodging is dependent upon visibility from and easy access to highways as
well as proximity to businesses. However, wine country hotels require more isolated
rural settings that foster a feeling of seclusion and relaxation. As documented in the
ECONorthwest study and other evidence in the record, the market for a wine country
hotel consists of "core" wine consumers who seek accommodations within wine
country that are sophisticated, private and luxurious. Furthermore, inherent in the
definition of a wine country hotel is its setting within "wine country"; that is, a
location among the very vineyards and wineries without which the wine country hotel
would have no basis. In the same manner as a beach hotel must be located on or near
the beach, a wine country hotel must be located in the midst of wine country.

        Based upon the distinct and necessary characteristics of wine country hotels,
the applicants applied a set of specific locational criteria for evaluation of the
alternative areas within the lands hierarchy. These include: (1) a minimum site size
of 35 acres set among or adjacent to vineyards; (2) maximum 20-minute travel time
from the highest concentration of vineyards and wineries with tourist amenities in
Yamhill County; and (3) accessible to improved local and regional transportation
facilities while not being negatively affected by traffic noise or view of these
facilities.

Ordinance 790                                ia                                           8/15/06
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                      0183

        Consistent with the facilities and amenities found in other wine country hotels
such as Auberge du Soleil in Napa Valley, OTAK, Inc. submitted a conceptual
development program and site plan for a wine country hotel that requires a minimum
of 35 acres. This provides for the necessary acreage for the footprint of the facilities
and the accessory estate-like setting and amenities. The second part of this criterion
requires that the site be located among or adjacent to vineyards. Because a wine
country hotel is wholly dependent upon its location among vineyards and wineries,
this is a fundamental siting criterion that, by definition, must be met.

        As provided in the ECONorthwest study and the applicants' alternatives
analysis, close proximity to wineries is defined as being within a maximum 20-minute
drive time. Accordingly, all areas within the land hierarchy were evaluated for drive
time to a central point within the greatest concentration of wineries in Yamhill
County, which is that area located between Dundee and Lafayette north of Highway
99W. This area was identified as the most suitable subarea for a wine country hotel
within the overall alternatives analysis area for two reasons.

       First, as shown on the area maps attached to the applicants' April 24, 2006 and
May 18, 2006 submittals, this area contains the greatest concentrationof wineries in
Yamhill County: approximately 22 wineries, including 12 with tasting rooms. No
other subarea in the county contains as many wineries in such close proximity to each
other. This cluster provides a critical mass of winery tourist facilities that, in turn,
creates the most viable market for a wine country hotel. As such, it is that area to
which the siting.of a wine country hotel is most-reasonably focused.

       Second, the geographic setting of these wineries and tasting rooms is
predominantly the rustic, vineyard setting that patrons of a wine country hotel seek in
their overall wine tourism experience.    Therefore, this subarea location is the most
congruent with the needs of the core wine market.

        Access to a wine country hotel must balance the competing needs of
accessibility to regional and local facilities, while not suffering from the negative
effects of these, such as noise and unattractive views.   In Yamhill County’s wine
country, the vast majority of wine tourists, and consequently future patrons of a wine
country hotel, approach this area from the east along Highway 99W. Accordingly,
alternative sites within proximity to Highway 99W are the most reasonable for the
siting of the wine country hotel, which is key for the success of a wine country hotel in
addition to the environmental benefits conveyed by not increasing vehicle miles
traveled. Local facilities should be improved or, if not improved, limited to short
distances that do not impede travel to a luxury wine country hotel. Accessibility must
be tempered by the need to limit exposure to the negative impacts of transportation

Ordinance 790                                 ta                                           8/15/08
                                                                                          Film 91
                                                                                            0184

 facilities. Therefore, sites must be located out of visual and audible distances of
 transportation facilities as a means to preserve the fundamental bucolic setting of a
 wine country hotel.

           The table attached to the applicants’ alternatives analysis contains the detailed
 analysis in which the wine country hotel siting criteria were applied generally to the
 lands in the study area. Based on this analysis, the Board finds that there are no
 alternative sites within the area that can "reasonably accommodate" the wine country
 hotel.

           Regarding other specific sites identified by opponents of the project, the
 applicants provided responses to the extent that those sites were identified with
 sufficiently specific facts to support a claim that those areas could accommodate the
 proposed hotel. For example, in correspondence dated March 2, 2006, 1000 Friends
 of Oregon generally identified the entire Newberg urban reserve area, which
 comprises over 400 acres of land adjacent to the existing urban growth boundary. By
 generally identifying over 400 acres of land, 1000 Friends of Oregon did not identify
 any particular "site" with sufficiently specific facts to support the assertion that those
 locations are more reasonable. Similarly, the March 2, 2006 1000 Friends of Oregon
 correspondence also references several other large areas such as the "Southwest
 Dundee Exception Area," the "Red Hills Road Exception Area," and the "Dundee
 Riverside" without providing the requisite description of specific alternative sites with
 facts to support their claim that those areas could reasonably accommodate the
 proposed. hotel... The Board finds that .these-sites. were-not identified with sufficient
 specificity by 1000 Friends to require detailed responses from the applicants or to
 allow the Board to make site-specific findings regarding whether they could
- reasonably accommodate the proposed use.

         The same deficiencies exist regarding all 23 sites identified in correspondence
 from Kathy Miller dated May 2, 2006. In that letter, Ms. Miller identifies 23
 alternative sites by tax lot number and acreage, and generally states that those sites are
 more reasonable because they are "not 94% high value farmland and can be accessed
 by roads that are not sub-standard." However, the roads to the subject property are
 also "not sub-standard," and Ms. Miller's general statements do not provide sufficient
 facts on which the Board could find that the alternative sites are either more or less
 reasonable than the subject property. The Board finds that these sites were not
 identified with sufficient specificity by Ms. Miller to require detailed responses from
 the applicants or to allow the Board to make site-specific findings regarding whether
 they could reasonably accommodate the proposed use.

 Ordinance 790                                  ~~                 .                      8/15/86
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                       0185

          Nonetheless, in the event that LUBA finds that the opponents did specifically
describe facts to support their assertions that the sites are more reasonable, the Board
adopts the following findings regarding all of the specific alternative sites.

          Dundee Riverside

        As stated above, 1000 Friends of Oregon failed to provide a sufficiently
detailed factual description of this area that would allow the Board to make site-
specific findings regarding whether there are specific properties that could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. According to 1000 Friends of Oregon, this area
consists of approximately 275 acres of land in the eastern portion of the City of
Dundee between existing development and the Willamette River. The Board agrees
with the applicants’ analysis that this area could not reasonably accommodate the
proposed hotel for each of the following independent reasons: (a) as indicated by
maps submitted into the record by the applicants, this area is directly in the path of the
approved Newberg-Dundee bypass corridor, and would be either directly impacted by
the construction of the bypass or would be rendered unsuitable for the proposed hotel
due to the external impacts of the bypass, notably noise and view; (b) the area is
within the UGB and is therefore designated to be developed at urban levels, which is
not consistent with the specific locational criteria discussed above and in Section IX.B
of these findings, which require a quiet rural setting; and (c) the area does not satisfy
the wine country hotel siting criterion requiring a vineyard setting.

          Newberg Urban Reserve Areas

          As stated above, 1000 Friends of Oregon failed to provide a sufficiently
detailed factual description of this area that would allow the Board to make site-
specific findings regarding whether there are specific properties that could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. These areas total over 400 acres and are located to
the north/east, south and west of the City of Newberg. The Board adopts and
incorporates the analysis set forth in the table attached to the applicants alternatives
analysis regarding these areas. Like the Dundee Riverside area addressed above, the
south Newberg urban reserve area is directly in the path of the approved Newberg-
Dundee bypass corridor, and is therefore unsuitable for the same reasons. Regarding
the north and east urban reserve areas, the Board finds that these areas have been
specifically identified as a high priority for future expansion of the Newberg UGB and
future urban development, which is not consistent with the specific locational criteria
discussed above and in Section IX.B of these findings that require a quiet rural setting;
also, the areas to the north and east do not satisfy the wine country hotel siting
criterion requiring a vineyard setting and also have relatively poor access to Highway
99W. Regarding the west Newberg urban reserve area, it does not appear that 1000

Ordinance 790   .                             -                                        8/15/86
                                                                                          Film 94
                                                                                           0186

Friends of Oregon have actually identified this area as a potential alternative site,
because their March 2, 2006 letter only identifies the former Urban Reserve Areas A-
D, and does not include areas E and F, which are to the west.      Because this western
area was not specifically identified by project opponents, the Board has no basis on
which to make specific findings regarding the relative reasonableness of that area,
except to adopt the analysis provided in the table attached to the applicants’
alternatives analysis.

          Austin Property

          This property includes commercially zoned land within the City of Newberg
near the railroad tracks. The Board finds that the property is within the UGB and is
therefore designated to be developed at urban levels, which is not consistent with the
specific locational criteria discussed above and in Section [X.B of these findings,
which require a quiet rural setting. Specifically, the property is located in a busy
commercial and industrial area near the railroad tracks, which would preclude
successful development of the specific type of luxury wine country hotel being
proposed. Also, the property does not satisfy the siting criterion requiring a vineyard
setting. Finally, the Board notes that evidence in the record indicates that the Austin
property is already being developed for another hotel use, and the property would
therefore not be available for use by the applicants in any event.

          Springbook Oaks

          This is an area located in the eastern portion of the City of Newberg that is
planned and designated as a live-work environment, with mixed residential and light
industrial and office development. The Board finds that, based on evidence placed in
the record by the applicants received from Newberg planning staff, most of the area
described in the 1000 Friends of Oregon letter has already been developed in the
manner planned by the city and therefore could not reasonably accommodate the
proposed hotel. This evidence has not been disputed by any of the opponents in their
subsequent evidentiary submittals. The Board further finds that for the same reasons
expressed above regarding other urban sites identified by opponents, the urban
location would preclude successful development of the specific type of luxury wine
country hotel being proposed.

          Red Hills Road Exception Area

        As stated above, 1000 Friends of Oregon failed to provide a sufficiently
detailed factual description of this area that would allow the Board to make site-
specific findings regarding whether there are specific properties that could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. The area is simply described by 1000 Friends in their

Ordinance 790                                  —                                          8/15/06
                                                                                  Film 91
                                                                                   0187

March 2, 2006 letter as a 164-acre exception area in a rural setting within a 20-minute
drive of "many wineries," concluding with the erroneous statement that "Red Hills
Road provides access to the heart of wine country." However, the applicants provided
a significantly more detailed analysis of this exception area in correspondence from
Perkins Coie dated June 19, 2006, which explains that this location could not
reasonably accommodate the proposed hotel based on the criteria applied in the
alternatives analysis and other obvious shortcomings. The area is heavily parcelized,
consisting primarily of parcels between three and seven acres. It is not located in a
vineyard setting; rather, this exception area is primarily characterized by existing rural
residential uses on smaller parcels. The property does not have a suitable view, and is
not in sufficiently close proximity to the concentration of wineries identified by the
applicant. Access to the heart of wine country from this area is indirect, and would
need to be via Highway 240 to the north, because Red Hills Road is an unimproved
gtavel road to the south. This evidence was not disputed by any of the opponents
during the subsequent open record period, and therefore the Board accepts the
evidence submitted by the applicants and rejects this as a viable alternative site.

          Southwest Dundee Exception Area

        As stated above, 1000 Friends of Oregon failed to provide a sufficiently
detailed factual description of this area that would allow the Board to make site-
specific findings regarding whether there are specific properties that could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. In fact, evidence submitted by the applicants in the
ECONorthwest analysis. dated. April. 24, 2006 indicates that according to Dundee
planning staff there is no exception area to the southwest of Dundee. In subsequent
letters to the county that include specific responses to the ECONorthwest analysis,
1000 Friends of Oregon has failed to provide any further statements or evidence
regarding the existence of a "southwest Dundee exception area" or its relative
suitability for the proposed use. Therefore, the Board accepts the evidence submitted
by the applicants and rejects this as a viable alternative site.

          Flying M Ranch

          As indicated on the area maps attached to the applicants' April 24, 2006 and
May 18, 2006 submittals, the Flying M Ranch is located a significant distance from
the wine country area, in the far northwest portion of the maps. The Flying M Ranch
is accessed by dirt and gravel roads and is an approximately 55-minute drive from the
concentration of wineries in Yamhill County that were considered by the applicants.
The Board notes that the 1988 INTRA study also specifically rejected the Flying M
Ranch for further consideration as a potential resort site for the same reason,
concluding that "the Flying M Ranch is a destination in its own right for residents and

Ordinance 790                                 7                                          8/15/66
                                                                                      Film 94
                                                                                        0188

visitors alike. However, its distance from the 99W/18 corridor makes it an unlikely
base for visitors touring the Wine Country." (INTRA Study, page 4-17). Also, the
Board concurs with the applicants' conclusion that the site does not provide the
necessary vineyard setting or views required for the proposed hotel.

          Riverwood Golf Course

        Although this site was formerly zoned Recreation Commercial, it has been
recently rezoned EFU and converted from a golf course to a filbert orchard. The
Board finds that this property is not properly considered as part of the alternatives
analysis under OAR 660-004-0020 for this reason. Also, separately and
independently, the Board finds that because of the recent conversion to farm use, the
property is not available for use as a hotel. Finally, the Board agrees with the
statements in the applicants' alternatives analysis regarding the fact that the property
does not provide the necessary vineyard setting or views required for the proposed
hotel, and therefore could not reasonably accommodate the proposed use.

          Miller Sites P,   Q and R

        As stated above, Kathy Miller in her correspondence dated May 2, 2006 failed
to provide a sufficiently detailed factual description of this area that would allow the
Board to make site-specific findings regarding whether these properties could
reasonably accommodate the proposed use. Nonetheless, as indicated on the maps
attached to the applicants' May 18, 2006 submittal, many of the sites identified by Ms.
Miller, including sites P, Q and R, are located north and west of Willamina,
approximately one hour away from the heart of wine country. These properties are too
far down Highway 99W, requiring significantly further travel from Portland and the
county's wineries. Therefore, for the reasons stated in the applicants’ alternatives -
analysis and correspondence from Perkins Coie dated May 18, 2006, the Board finds
that these sites are too remote to reasonably accommodate the proposed hotel.

          Miller Site A-6

          As stated above, Ms. Miller in her correspondence dated May 2, 2006 failed to
provide a sufficiently detailed factual description of this area that would allow the
Board to make site-specific findings regatding whether this property could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. In contrast, in correspondence from Perkins Coie
dated June 19, 2006, the applicants submitted the following detailed evidence into the
record, which was not challenged by Ms. Miller or other opponents: "This property is
located south of Highway 240 and can only be.accessed via Highway 240 and a
narrow private road from the east (Herring Lane). It is traversed on the north side by
BPA power transmission lines and towers. It is not located among vineyards and has

Ordinance 790                                “             .                         8/15/06
                                                                                 Film 91
                                                                                  0189

no appreciable view. The property is located adjacent to a lama farm and other
agricultural uses. Access to the property is poor and it is beyond the 20-minute
minimum travel time to the concentration of wineries identified by the applicant in the
alternatives analysis. The area is also characterized by rural residential development
that would be inconsistent with the proposed use." The Board accepts the detailed and
uncontroverted evidence submitted by the applicants and finds that this property could
not reasonably accommodate the use.

          Miller Site I

       As stated above, Ms. Miller in her correspondence dated May 2, 2006 failed to
provide a sufficiently detailed factual description of this area that would allow the
Board to make site-specific findings regarding whether this property could reasonably
accommodate the proposed use. In contrast, in correspondence from Perkins Coie
dated June 19, 2006, the applicants submitted the following detailed evidence into the
record, which was not challenged by Ms. Miller or other opponents: "This site is
located about half a mile up a gravel road beyond Lemelson Vineyards, and is too
distant from the concentration of wineries identified by the applicant to reasonably
accommodate the proposed hotel. Also, the property is heavily forested, is not set
among Vineyards, and has no view. The area is characterized by nearby agricultural
uses and forest. The environmental consequences of locating the hotel on this site
would be more adverse due to the need to remove a significant amount of trees for
development of the hotel.” The Board accepts the detailed and uncontroverted
evidence submitted by.the applicants regarding this site in both their April 24, 2006
and May 18, 2006 submittals, and finds that because of the lack of a vineyard setting,
lack of requisite views, and lack of proximity to the winery concentration and
Highway 99W, this property could not reasonably accommodate the proposed hotel
use.

        As concluded in the applicants’ alternative sites analysis and supplemental
materials, there are no other exception areas or areas within urban growth boundaries
that are of sufficient size and location to reasonably accommodate this type of use.
The use requires at least 35 acres of relatively secluded property in a rural wine
country area, among vineyards and away from major highways, with expansive views
of the countryside. The Board finds that the applicants have considered both :
urbanized and unincorporated portions of Yamhill County, and correctly concluded
that no other parcels in Yamhill County that would not require an exception could
reasonably accommodate the proposed luxury wine country hotel.

          (c)    The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy
                 consequences resulting from the use of the proposed site with

Ordinance 790                                 --                                     8/15/86
                                                                                     Film 91
                                                                                      0190

                 measures designed to reduce adverse impacts are not
                 significantly more adverse than would typically result from the
                 same proposal being located in other areas requiring a goal
                 exception. The exception shall describe the characteristics of
                 each alternative area considered by the jurisdiction for which an
                 exception might be taken, the typical advantages and
                 disadvantages of using the area for use not allowed by the goal
                 and the typical positive and negative consequences resulting from
                 the use at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce
                 adverse impacts.

          The analysis required by this section of the rule is provided above in Section
IX.B of these findings addressing OAR 660-014-0040(3)(b), and in the ESEE analysis
and supplemental detailed site information submitted by the applicants in
correspondence from Perkins Coie. The Board notes that all this rule requires is a
determination that the ESEE consequences resulting from the proposed hotel "are not
significantly more adverse" than would result from the hotel being placed in another
undeveloped rural area that would also require an exception. This rule does not create
a particularly high standard. For the same reasons set forth in Section [X.B of these
findings, the Board finds that the long-term ESEE consequences resulting from
developing the hotel on the proposed site are not significantly more adverse than
would result from the hotel being placed in another undeveloped rural area that would
also require a goal exception, particularly with the stated conditions of approval and
other identified measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.

          (d)    The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or
                 will be rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse
                 impacts.   The exception shall describe how the proposed use will
                 be compatible with the adjacent land uses. The exception shall
                 demonstrate that the proposed use is situated in such a manner
                 as to be compatible with surrounding natural resources and
                 resource management or production practices.

        The analysis required by this section of the rule is provided above in Section
[X.B of these findings addressing OAR 660-014-0040(3)(c). For the same reasons set
forth in Section [X.B of these findings, the Board finds that the proposed uses are
compatible with other adjacent uses, particularly with the stated conditions of
approval and other identified measures designed to reduce adverse impacts. The
proposed hotel will be situated on only approximately 12 acres of the 65-acre site, and
will be buffered from adjacent agricultural uses by open space and vineyards that will
be planted by the applicants.

Ordinance 790                                 cad                                        8/15/66
                                                                                    Film 94
                                                                                     0191

          D.    OAR 660-004-0022

       This administrative rule supplements OAR 660-004-0020 by providing
examples of the types of reasons that may be relied upon to justify an exception to
Goal 3 or Goal 4 for certain types of uses.

          (a)   For uses not specifically provided for in subsequent sections of
                660-004 or 660-014 the reasons shall justify why the state Policy
                embodied in the applicable goal should not apply. Such reasons
                include but are not limited to the following:

                (1)     There is a demonstrated need for the proposed use or
                activity based on one or more of the requirements of Statewide
                Goals 3 to 19; and either

                (2)   | A resource upon which the proposed use or activity is
                dependent can be reasonably obtained only if the proposed
                exception site and the use or activity requires a location near
                the resource. An exception based on this subsection must
                include an analysis of the market area to be served by the
                proposed use or activity and must demonstrate that the
                proposed exception site is the only one within that market area
                at which the resource depended upon can reasonably be
                obtained; or

                (3)     The proposed use or activity has special features or
                qualities that necessitate its location on or near the proposed
                exception site.

       The express language of this section of the rules states that it does not apply
where, as here, the requested exception contemplates uses provided for under the
Division 14 rules.    As explained above in Section IX.A of these findings, the Board
finds that OAR 660-004-0022 does not apply where an "urban" use is requested that
requires application of the Goal 14 rule at OAR 660-014-0040. However, the Board
adopts the following findings in the event that LUBA decides to re-interpret the rules
and reverse its prior decisions on this issue.

        The demonstrated need for this proposed use is established above in Section
IX.B of these findings, which are incorporated here by reference. Under OAR 660-
004-0022(1), one example of a reason that can be relied upon to establish the
justification for an exception is that the exception will enable a local government to
meet one or more of its planning obligations. Such obligations can be found in both

Ordinance 790                                 --                                         8/15/06
                                                                                    Film 91
                                                                                      0192

the Statewide Planning Goals and in the county's acknowledged comprehensive plan.
The Board finds that in Yamhill County, the requested exceptions for the proposed
hotel are necessary to allow a use that has been identified as an essential means by
which the county can meet its requirements under Statewide Planning Goal 9,
"Economic Development," and implementing policies of the Yamhill County
Comprehensive Plan, in order to achieve the county's goals of diversification and
stabilization of the local economy.

        The Board finds that ORS 197.340(1) requires that local governments, DLCD
and LCDC, "shall give the goals equal weight in any matter in which the goals are
required to be applied." The Board finds this to mean that Goal 9 has as much weight
as Goals 3, 4 or 14 in this proceeding. The Board finds, based on substantial evidence
in the whole record, that the economic development potential of this application for
the county outweighs any concerns regarding inconsistencies with Goals 3, 4 or 14.
Specifically, the significant economic advantages associated with the proposed hotel
outweigh concerns regarding the placement of an "urban" use on rural land, or the loss
of 12 acres of EFU-zoned land that is not viable for agricultural production and has
not been in agricultural production for at least ten years.

          As explained in the economic analysis and supplemental materials prepared by
ECONorthwest, despite the fact that Oregon (and Yamhill County in particular), is the
home to many internationally known wineries that produce world-class wines, Oregon
lacks a full-service "destination" hotel in the wine country area of the type found in
Napa Valley, such as Meadowood, Auberge du Soleil and Calistoga Ranch... The
proposed hotel will generate significant economic benefits to the County. At present,
wine country tourists who decide to visit Yamhill County on a vacation are far more
likely to stay in Portland than in Yamhill County, and must make at least a 60-mile
round trip drive in order to visit wineries. In addition to depriving Yamhill County of
tourist-related income, this situation also results in higher vehicle miles traveled and
carbon emissions. As stated in the ECONorthwest study, "millions of potential
tourism dollars are likely going unspent in Yamhill County because Oregon's wine
country is inconvenient and does not have adequate accommodations for wine country
tourists."

        The need for a hotel of this type in the wine country of Yamhill County was
recognized as early as 1988, when the INTRA study commissioned by Yamhill
County identified a "pressing need" for a lodging and dining establishment like the
proposed hotel designed to serve growing numbers of wine country tourists. That
study indicates that even as long ago as 1988 Yamhill County was attempting to
capitalize on the tourism benefits associated with its growing wine industry by
encouraging economic development associated with wine tasting and wine country

Ordinance 790                               -                                          8/15/66
                                                                                   Film 91
                                                                                    0193

tourism. The study found that "the secret to establishing Yamhill County as the wine-
tasting capital of Oregon is the creation of attractive, visitor-oriented facilities."
(INTRA Study, page 4-11). The study noted that "as the local wine industry gains
momentum and as wine tasting in Yamhill County becomes a form of recreation, there
will be a pressing need for additional overnight accommodations and dining
opportunities in the County." (INTRA Study, page 2-2). The study also found that
"there is a growing need for additional facilities to serve the small meeting and
conference market." (INTRA Study, page 4-20). The study concluded that the
county's wine industry was a significant tourism amenity and that the county should
attempt to meet the identified needs and economic opportunities presented by the
growth of the wine industry by locating a small destination resort in the wine country
area. One of the locations identified for the proposed resort was the Red Hills of
Dundee, where the subject property is located. (INTRA Study, page 6-1).

      The Board finds that the needs and economic opportunities identified by the
1988 study have still gone largely unmet. Although there has certainly been a
proliferation of bed and breakfast establishments in the wine country area, there has
been no development similar to the "destination" wine country hotel that was proposed
in 1988. As discussed in more detail below, a hotel of this type will fill a particular
niche of overnight accommodation need that has never been met by Yarnhill County,
which is the reason why so many visitors to Yamhill County's world-class wineries
only make day trips to the county, staying at nicer hotels in Portland instead. As stated
in the testimony of Tim Harmon of Auberge du Soleil, and repeated by Commissioner
Stern during deliberations, "Yamhill-County wines-are known as some of the finest
wines in the world, and they deserve a world class resort that compliments and
supports them." Additional testimony regarding the need for a hotel of this type is
discussed above in Section [X.B of these findings, and in the ECONorthwest analysis
dated April 24, 2006 and supplemental correspondence from ECONorthwest that has
been adopted and incorporated by the Board.

         The Board finds that there is an identified and unmet need for a hotel of this
type in order for the county to meet its obligations under Goal 9 to provide
opportunities for economic activities vital to the health, welfare and prosperity of its
citizens. The need for this hotel is also supported by Yamhill County Comprehensive
Plan Section 1.F, which relates to Economic Development and recognizes that
economic diversification “results in a stronger, more stable local economy by
increasing employment opportunities." The Economic Development Plan provisions
require the county to “maintain a rate and pattern of economic growth sufficient to
prevent recurring high levels of unemployment and under-employment in the county,
balance the real property tax base of the various cities, and strengthen local economic
bases." The Board finds that the Plan identifies a need to diversify the economy,

                                                                                                 Yr

Ordinance 790                               -                                          8/15/G8
                                                                                    Film 94
                                                                                     0194

encourage economic growth and strengthen local economic bases. The proposed hotel
responds to that need by furthering economic activity within the wine industry,
stimulating additional tourism in Yamhill County, and strengthening the local
economic base and the county's tax base. The proposed hotel will provide the county
with an important vehicle, not otherwise available, to meet the identified economic
needs and goals by providing diversification and strengthening the local economy.

          Evidence provided by ECONorthwest indicates that the proposed hotel will
provide seasonal employment for a minimum of 50 employees using an approximate
average of one staff person to support each hotel room. In addition, the hotel is
intended to support convention and meeting facilities as well as banquet rooms for
private events such as weddings in the off season. The proposed hotel is expected to
facilitate sale and consumption of wines produced at local wineries and will also
facilitate and extend the name recognition of Yamhill County wineries stimulating
sales in other national and international markets. The Board finds that in other wine-
producing areas such as Napa Valley, California, wine country hotels also support
sightseeing, shopping in local shops and art galleries, antiquing, and dining at
restaurants in nearby areas. Consequently, the proposed hotel will have a positive
economic impact on nearby commercial and retail establishments. Also, the hotel will
provide additional employment, which will make more money available in Yamhill
County for commercial transactions generally, and will also increase the county's
overall tax base.

        The.economic. effect of the-hotel.on Yamhill County local wineries. will be very
positive due to increased use of tasting rooms and increased exposure of the local
product to the wine drinkers irrespective of the site selected. The interaction between
hotel guests and the local wineries and other local businesses will result in significant
economic benefits to the county's wine tourism industry and also to the county as a
whole. The targeted clientele of the hotel will include wine tourists from all over the
country and the world, which will provide increased visibility, recognition and
distribution of Yamhill County wines in the global marketplace. As noted at the
hearing before the Board, the national and international wine-related press have been
inquiring with the applicants about the status of the proposed hotel, and an article
about the proposal has already been published in Wine Spectator magazine. The
resulting economic benefit derived from the hotel will allow the county to meet its
obligations under Goal 9 and Plan Policy 1.F to maintain economic growth and
strengthen the local economic base.

        The Board finds that, for the reasons explained above in Section LX.B of these
findings, the proposed use or activity has special features and qualities that necessitate
its location on or near the proposed exception site. The subject property is unique in

Ordinance 790                                ad                                        8/15/66
                                                                                 Film 91
                                                                                  0195

that it provides all of the necessary site-related requirements identified in the
applicants' alternatives analysis. The subject property is in the heart of Yamhill
County's wine country, within 20 minutes' driving time of more than 20 wineries,
including approximately 12 nearby wineries with the desired vineyard setting and on-
site tasting rooms, and within walking distance of two. At approximately 65 acres, it
is large enough to meet the site size requirement. The property also provides a quiet
rural setting with beautiful hilltop views of the countryside, and includes enough
acreage to ensure that the hotel will be surrounded by landscaping, open space, and
other resource-related uses that will be compatible with the needs of the hotel guests.
Any site that did not include these features would not meet the required need and
would not result in a successful project. Fortunately, the subject property also allows
the proposed hotel to be developed without taking any viable agricultural uses out of
production.

         As explained above, and in the ECONorthwest analysis, the hotel will be a
significant economic generator for the area and for the County in general. Its location
is necessary for it to achieve its success, In order to attract visitors and "core" wine
tourists, it must be located in a wine country location, on a parcel with sufficient size
and views to provide a "destination" wine country experience.

xX.       COMPREHENSIVE         PLAN POLICIES

        The application complies with most, but not all, of the applicable Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan policies. However, the only Plan policies that are
inconsistent with the map amendments are those policies that require "urban" levels of
development to be located within urban growth boundaries and that prohibit
development of agricultural lands. These departures from the county's acknowledged
Plan provisions may be allowed based on the Board's approval of the requested goal
exceptions. The county's approval of the requested goal exceptions under the
applicable state statutes and rules authorize the proposed amendments despite the fact
that the amendments would otherwise conflict with certain Plan policies. Therefore,
as indicated below, the Board's decision approving the requested exceptions means
that many otherwise applicable Plan policies are not relevant.

          Plan Section   I— Urban Growth and Change and Economic Development

          A.    Urban Area Development

          Goal Statement 1: To encourage the containment of growth within existing
          urban centers, provide for the orderly, staged, diversified and compatible
          development of all of the cities of Yamhill County, and assure an efficient
          transition from rural to urban land use.

Ordinance 790                                --                           .           8/15/66
                                                                                        Film 94
                                                                                          0196

          Policy A:   Yamhill County will, in cooperation with the cities and special
          districts of the county, encourage urban growth to take the form of a series of
          compact, balanced communities, each with its own business and community
          center and each related to industrial areas and other centers of employment.

          Policy C:   Yamhill County will recognize the lands within established urban
          growth boundaries as the appropriate and desired location for urban
          development.

           Goal Statement 2: To encourage the containment of urban services and
          facilities and other public capital improvements within existing urbanizing
           areas in order to achieve an orderly pattern of urban growth.

       These county goal statements and associated policies are intended to implement
Goal 14 by requiring urban levels of development to occur within urban areas. The
Board has adopted findings identifying the reasons why the policies and standards of
Goal 14 should not apply to the present application, and explaining why the proposed
development meets the applicable exception criteria. Therefore, these county goals
and policies implementing Goal 14 are not relevant to this application.

          B.     Rural Area Development

          Goal Statement I: To provide an adequate amount of land, development areas
          and sites to accommodate those uses which are customarily found in rural
          areas or require oF aré better suited to rural locations, without compromising
          the basic goal relating to urban containment and orderly urban development.

        The Board finds that the application is consistent with this goal statement. As
explained in the applicants' alternatives analysis and the ECONorthwest analysis, and
as set forth in the Board's findings in Section [X.B above, the proposed hotel use can
only be located in a rural setting, rather than an urban setting, and other sites that do
not require exceptions cannot reasonably accommodate the proposed use. The
development of a single hotel on 12 acres will not compromise the basic goal of
providing a compact urban form and orderly urban development.

          Policy B: All proposed rural area developments shall be based on a
          reasonable expectation of the demand for the use of such land or facilities
          within a reasonable period of time and no large-scale development shall be
          approved without:

                 1. The submission and approval of a layout and design concept, with
                 provision for the staging and servicing of all phases of the development;

Ordinance 790                                  --                                        8/15/68
                                                                                   Film 91
                                                                                    0197

                2. The approval of all federal and state agencies relative in any
                applicable health, safety and environmental controls; and

                3. An adequate demonstration of the financial capacity and
                responsibility of the proponents to complete the development and
                provide for operation and maintenance services.

       The Board finds that these policies will be addressed in conformance with
applicable YCZO standards at the time of Site Design Review and actual development
of the proposed hotel. For purposes of the map amendments and exceptions at issue in
this proceeding, the applicant has submitted a proposed site plan that identifies the
approximate location of the hotel and the area of the requested map amendments.
Also, for the reasons explained in the ECONorthwest analysis and supplemental
memoranda, and in the Board's findings in Section IX above, the requested exception
is consistent with this policy because the proposed development is based on a
reasonable expectation of the demand for a luxury wine country hotel in Yamhill
County.

         Policy C: All proposed rural area development and facilities:

                1. Shall be appropriately, if not uniquely, suited to the area or site
                proposed for development;

                2. Shall not be located in any natural hazard area, such as a floodplain
                o¥ area of geologic hazard, steep slope, severe drainage problems or
                soil limitations for building or sub-surface sewage disposal, if relevant;

                3. Shall be furnished with adequate access.and an adequate individual
                or community water supply, if required; and shall not be justified solely
                or even primarily on the argument that the land is less costly than
                alternative better sites or that federal or state aid is available in the
                form of subsidized water supply or sewerage extensions from nearby
                urban centers.

          The Board finds that the proposed development is consistent with these
policies. For the reasons explained in Section IX of these findings regarding the
specific locational requirements for the proposed hotel, the hotel is appropriately, if
not uniquely, suited to the site proposed for development.      Also, the proposed hotel
will not be located in a natural hazard area and has adequate access. The Board has
found that water service for the hotel is feasible, and has conditioned its approval on
the applicant's ability to provide adequate water supply and to obtain the necessary
permit for a well within three years.

Ordinance 790                                  -                   ,                         8/15/66
                                                                                          Film 94
                                                                                           0198

          Policy D: No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially
          influence the extension of costly services and facilities normally associated
          with urban centers, such as municipal water supply and sanitary sewerage or
          power, gas and telephone services, nor shall it impose inordinate additional
          net costs on mobile, centralized public services, such as police and fire
          protection, school busing or refuse collection.

        The Board finds that for the reasons stated elsewhere in these findings, the
proposed development does not require the extension of costly utilities to the site, and
does not impose inordinate additional net costs on public services such as police and
fire protection.

          Cc.    Alternative Development

       The Board finds that these policies are not applicable to the present application,
and do not create mandatory approval criteria in any event.

          D.     City Growth and Development

        The Board finds that these policies apply to urban development within cities,
annexation and urban reserve areas, and are therefore not applicable to the present
application.

          E.     Housing

       The Board finds that these goals and policies relate to the provision of adequate
housing in Yamhill County, and do not apply to the present application.

          F.     Economic Development

        The Plan indicates that the county has found that economic diversification
generally results in a stronger and more stable local economy because it increases
employment opportunities, and that high levels of unemployment have traditionally
been a problem. The Plan also acknowledges that new industries have entered the
county to help alleviate this situation.

          Goal Statement: To maintain a rate and pattern of economic growth sufficient
          to prevent recurring high levels of unemployment and under-employment in the
          county, balance the real property tax base of the various cities, and strengthen
          local economic bases.

Ordinance 790                                  -                                          8/15/66
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                        0199

          Policy A: Yamhill County will, in cooperation with the cities, local
          chambers of commerce and affiliated industrial promotion grounds, and
          State agencies concerned with the State and regional economic
          development, encourage a diversified employment base, the
          strengthening of trade centers, and the attraction of both capital and
          labor intensive enterprises, consistent with the needs of each community
          and the County as a whole.

          The Board finds that the proposed hotel and accessory uses including the
meeting facility, restaurant and spa will encourage a diversified employment base in
the county. The proposed hotel will require the hiring of a minimum of 50 employees.
It also will result in attraction of tourists and business oriented visitors to the area who
are likely to patronize the local wineries and vineyards, as well as many other area
businesses. The hotel will also support the Yamhill County wine industry by
attracting a nationwide clientele of wine consumers who are seeking this type of wine
country tourist experience. The Board adopts and incorporates by reference its
findings in Section IX.B regarding the beneficial economic impacts of the hotel on the
economy of the county.

          Policy B:   Yamhill County will encourage economic development
          projects which do not conflict with the predominant timber and
          agricultural character of the county.

        The approximately 65-acre property contains several areas formerly in
agricultural use but which have not been in commercial agricultural use for at least 10
years. Based on evidence in the record, the Board finds that elevations on the site are
too high for quality grape production, the current property owners have been unable to
sell the property for agricultural purposes, and the property is not in farm or forest tax
deferral. The Board has adopted findings approving exceptions to Goals 3 and 4 for
the subject property, and finding that the removal of this 12 acres of land from
agricultural zoning will not have any discernable impact on the county's agricultural
economy, The Board finds that the hotel will not conflict with the predominant timber
and agricultural character of the county, and will further Plan policies regarding
economic development and diversification of the county's economy.         The proposed
hotel would provide overnight accommodations for tourists and meeting facilities that
will allow larger groups of people to remain in the area, which would supplement and
enhance the local vineyard industry and the county's growing wine tourism industry.
The Board adopts and incorporates by reference its findings in Section IX.B regarding
the beneficial economic impacts of the hotel on the economy of the county.

Ordinance 790                                --                                          8/15/66
                                                                                      Fitm 94
                                                                                       0200

          Policy C: Yamhill County will ensure citizen participation in economic
          development planning through the continued involvement of the Yamhill
          County Economic Development Committee.

          Policy D: Yamhill County will develop an Overall Economic Development
          Program which is consistent with the county comprehensive plan. This
          program will be outlined in an updated Overall Economic Development Plan
          which, upon completion, will be incorporated into the economic element of the
          county comprehensive plan.

        The Board finds that these policies create citizen involvement and planning
requirements that do not create mandatory approval criteria for the county's review of
quasi-judicial map amendment applications.

          G.      Commercial Development

          Goal Statement: To create an environment for commercial development which
          will preserve and enhance the vitality of the central business districts, assure
          safer, more convenient and attractive community and neighborhood
          commercial centers, and protect prime commercial sites for use in advance of
          need.

          Policy C: Commercial uses unsuited to downtown areas will normally be
          restricted to other areas within the urban growth boundary.

          Policy E: Highway service and tourist commercial uses catering to the needs
          of the traveling public will be encouraged to locate within existing urban
          centers. Traditional central commercial uses will be encouraged to locate or
          relocate only in existing town centers and the dispersal of such uses to
          peripheral highway locations will be discouraged.

          Policy G: Recreational commercial uses will be encouraged to locate within
          urban growth boundaries or in compatible urban areas where their location
          and space requirements can be most satisfactorily fulfilled.

        The Board finds that these county goal statements and associated policies are
not stated as mandatory approval criteria, but create aspirational goals directing the
county to "encourage" commercial development to occur in urban areas; as such, these
general planning policies designed to "encourage" growth in a certain location cannot
be relied upon by the county as a means to deny the present quasi-judicial plan
amendment application. The Board also finds that these policies are intended to
implement Goal 14 by encouraging commercial development to occur in downtown

Ordinance 790                                 cata                                    8/15/66
                                                                                            Fim 91
                                                                                              0201

areas within urban growth boundaries.       The Board has adopted findings identifying
specific reasons why the policies and standards of Goal 14 should not apply to the
present application, and explaining why the proposed development meets the
applicable exception criteria. Therefore, even if these county goals and policies
contained mandatory approval criteria, they are not relevant to this application.

          H.     Industrial Development

          The Board finds that these goals and policies regarding industrial development
do not apply to the present application.

          Plan Section II ~ The Land and Water

          A.     Agricultural Lands

          Goal Statement 1: To conserve Yamhill County's farm lands for the
          production of crops and livestock and to ensure that the conversion of farm
          land to urban use where necessary and appropriate occurs in an orderly and
          economical manner.

          Goal Statement 2: To conserve Yamhill County's soil resources in a manner
          reflecting their suitability for forestry, agriculture and urban development and
          their sustained use for the purposes designated on the county plan map.

       The Board finds that these goal statements and related implementing policies
are intended to implement Goal 3 by generally prohibiting development of agricultural
lands. The Board has adopted findings identifying specific reasons why the policies
and standards of Goal 3 should not apply to the present application, and explaining
why the proposed development meets the applicable exception criteria, Therefore,
these county goals and policies implementing Goal 3 are not relevant to this
application.

          B.     Forest Lands

          Goal Statement:   To conserve and manage efficiently the county's forest and
          range resources, thereby ensuring a sustained yield of forest products,
          adequate grazing areas for domestic livestock, habitat for fish and wildlife,
          protection of forest soils and watershed, and preservation of recreational
          opportunities.

        The Board finds that these goal statements and related implementing policies
are intended to implement Goal 4 by generally prohibiting development of forest

Ordinance 790                                  _                                          8/15/88
                                                                                        Film 94
                                                                                         0202

lands. The Board has adopted findings identifying specific reasons why the policies
and standards of Goal 4 should not apply to the present application, and explaining
why the proposed development meets the applicable exception criteria. Therefore,
these county goals and policies implementing Goal 4 are no longer relevant to this
application,

          cC,    Water Resources

          Goal Statement: To conserve and to manage efficiently our water resources in
          order to sustain and enhance the quantity and quality of flows for all
          consumptive and non-consumptive uses and to abate flood, erosion and
          sedimentation problems.

          Policy A:   Yamhill County will cooperate with federal and state agencies, the
          cities of the county, and the local soil and water conservation district to
         identify, conserve and develop water resources on a long-range, multiple-use
         basis in response to need, with full consideration given to the benefits, costs,
         potential uses and the carrying capacity of the resource.

       The Board finds that Policy A creates a planning requirement that directs the
county to cooperate with other public entities regarding the identification and
conservation of water resources in response to need. This policy does not create a
mandatory approval criterion for a quasi-judicial map amendment. Further, the Board
has included conditions of approval requiring the applicants to obtain an adequate
water supply for the hotel by obtaining the necessary permits from the Oregon Water
Resources Department (OWRD) within three years. The state permitting process will
require consideration of water availability and impacts of a new well on the carrying
capacity of the groundwater resource. As explained in the opinion provided by
Newton Consultants, OWRD ground water permits include conditions on ground
water rights requiring the applicants to demonstrate that the project's wells have no
measurable impact on surrounding wells.

         Policy I: Where conflicting uses are identified or intended, in specific
         proposals or programs, the economic, social, environmental and energy
         consequences of the conflicting uses shall be determined as used as a basis for
         decision-making.

        Evidence in the record from Newton Consultants indicates that it is feasible for
the applicants to obtain a permit for a new well in the marine sediments that can
operate without interfering with other wells in the area. Extension of wells into the
marine sediments, together with properly designed and constructed well seals, can be
relied upon as a way to reduce potential for well interference to the satisfaction of

Ordinance 790                                  aad                                      8/15/86
                                                                                          Film 941
                                                                                           0203

OWRD.           The state permitting process will require consideration of water availability
and impacts of a new well on the carrying capacity of the groundwater resource. As
explained in the opinion provided by Newton Consultants, OWRD ground water
permits typically include conditions on ground water rights requiring the applicants to
demonstrate that the projects’ wells have no measurable impact on surrounding wells.
Therefore, the Board finds that there is no direct evidence that the hotel will be a
"conflicting use" with any other uses in the area within the meaning of Policy I.

          D.        ‘Fish and Wildlife

        The Board finds that these goals and policies regarding protection of fish and
wildlife do not apply to the present application, because there is no identified fish or
wildlife habitat on the subject property and the proposed development will not
otherwise impact fish or wildlife habitat.

          E.        Open Space

        The county's goals and policies regarding open space require adoption of an
inventory of significant open space and scenic resources as part of the county's Goal 5
inventory. The subject property is not included on any inventory of significant
resources under Goal 5, including open space. The Board finds that these goals and
policies do not apply to the present application.

          F,        Mineral and Aggregate Resources

          G.        Ecologically and Scientifically Significant Natural Areas

          H.        Outstanding Scenic Views and Sites

          I.        Historic Areas, Sites, Structures and Objects and Cultural Areas

          J.        Wild and Scenic Waterways

       The goals and policies regarding these resources all relate to areas that are
included on the county's inventory of significant resources under Goal 5. The 12 acres
subject to this request do not include any resources on the county's Goal 5 inventory,
and these sections of the Plan do not apply.

          Plan Section UI — Transportation, Communication and Public Utilities

          A.        Transportation

Ordinance 790                                     od                :        ;             8/15/68
                                                                                            Film 97
                                                                                              0204

       Goal Statement: To provide and encourage an efficient, safe, convenient and
economic transportation and communication system, including road, rail, waterways,
public transit and air, to serve the needs of existing and projected urban and rural
development within the county, as well as to accommodate the regional movement of
people and goods and the transfer of energy, recognizing the economic, social and
energy impacts of the various modes of transportation.

          Policy B: All transportation-related decisions will be made in consideration of
          land use impacts including but not limited to adjacent land use patterns, both
          existing and planned, and their designated uses and densities

         Policy J: All county transportation-related decisions will be made in
         particular consideration of energy efficiency and conservation.

          Policy O: All transportation-related decisions will be made in support of the
          efficient and economic movement of people, goods, and services throughout the
          region, and will be based on the location and adequacy of facilities for such
          goods and services.

          The Board finds that for the reasons explained in Section VIILL of these
findings regarding Goal 12 and the TPR, and for the reasons explained in the
Lancaster TIA and supplemental memoranda adopted by the Board, the map
amendments and exceptions are consistent with the county's goal to provide an
efficient, safe, convenient and economic transportation and communication system,
and with the relevant policies designed to implement the goal. Even without
considering the eventual construction of the Newberg-Dundee Bypass, which has long
been tomorrow's dream for the county but is now approaching reality, the intersections
that would be impacted by the hotel will continue to operate acceptably. To the extent
this decision is a “transportation-related decision" within the meaning of the above-
quoted policies, the Board has considered the land use impacts associated with the
development of the proposed hotel, including nearby land uses, and has also
considered the energy efficiencies that will result from allowing individuals who
would otherwise stay overnight in Portland and make day trips to Yamhill County's
wine country to stay locally instead. As concluded in the Lancaster TIA, the proposed
hotel will have no significant effect on efficient and economic transportation
throughout the region, and will not significantly effect any transportation facilities
within the meaning of the TPR.

          Pian Section V — Environmental Quality

          A.     Air, Water and Land Resource Quality

Ordinance 790                                cad                                         8/15/66
                                                                                       Film 94
                                                                                        0205

          Goal Statement 1: To conserve and to protect natural resources, including
          air, water, soil and vegetation and wildlife, from pollution or deterioration
          which would dangerously alter the ecological balance, be detrimental to
          human health, or compromise the beauty and tranquility of the natural
          environment

          Goal Statement 2: To preserve and enhance the charm and amenity values of
          the county, while accommodating change, through ensuring harmony between
          urban development and the natural environment, at the same time cultivating
          more attractive urban environments in which to live, work and play

       The Board finds that the approval of the requested map amendments and
exceptions is consistent with these two goal statements and implementing policies.
There is not a sliver of evidence in the record to suggest that the proposed hotel would
“dangerously alter the ecological balance." Nor is there substantial evidence in the
record to support a finding that the hotel would otherwise be detrimental to human
health or compromise the beauty and tranquility of the natural environment. In order
to ensure environmental quality and promote sustainability, the Board has imposed a
condition of approval requiring the applicants to include "green development"
provisions, to be determined in the Site Design Review approval, including but limited
to the following: (a) vehicle trip reduction; (b) energy conservation; (c) waste water
reuse; and (d) building material conservation. The proposed hotel will provide
harmonious development that does not detract from the beauty of the natural rural
environment, but instead fits seamlessly.in its surroundings.

XI.       ZONING ORDINANCE PROVISIONS

          Pursuant to Section 1204 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance ("YCZO"),
this application was processed through a Type C Procedure as described in YCZO
Section 1301.01.C. Under YCZO 1208.02, a quasi-judicial change to a zoning map
may be authorized provided that the applicant demonstrates compliance with the
following criteria:

          A,     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies and
                 any other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       Compliance with all applicable goals, policies and provisions of the YCCP is
addressed in Section X of these findings.

          B.     There is an existing, demonstrable need for the particular uses
                 allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of
                 such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing

Ordinance 790                                  -                                 .        8/15/66
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                        0206

                 market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability
                 and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
                 uses allowed by the zone.

          The Board finds that substantial evidence in the record establishes that there is
an existing demonstrable need for the particular use allowed by the requested zone.
Detailed findings addressing the "need" criterion are set forth above in Section IX, and
those findings are adopted and incorporated by reference. The use allowed by the
requested zone, pursuant to an exception granted for applicable Goals, is a luxury
wine country hotel. The analysis submitted by ECONorthwest demonstrates that the
need exists for such a facility to serve Oregon's wine country. The Board has already
adopted findings that the proposed use is important to the citizenry and the economy
of the area. The use will generate an economic boost for Yamhill County by
promoting the wine growing region and its vineyards and vendors, without creating
undue traffic burdens, impact on water resources or withdrawing valuable land from
agricultural production. The scale of the proposed hotel is consistent with the
character of the Yamhill County wine country. The use not only benefits the economy
but also the citizens of the state by promoting the wine growing industry and those
citizens who work in the industry.

         The ECONorthwest analysis also demonstrates that there is a significant
existing market demand for the use. The market demand is not met by existing hotel
facilities or bed and breakfast establishments. Notwithstanding that existing overnight
accommodations.in.the.county: are.well run.and.-meet.a need, this kind-of facility
represents an unfulfilled need given the explosive growth of the county's wine-related
economy and wine tourism in general.

          No other location is appropriate for this use. As explained in Section IX of
these findings, and addressed in detail in the ECONorthwest analysis, the applicant
has established that no other lands zoned RC are suitable for the use given either their
location, size, or proximity to highways and urban areas. The subject property is
appropriate for the use because of its reasonable access to State Highway 99, its
proximity to vineyards and wineries, its views to the south and its distance from urban
areas.

          C.     The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding
                 land uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any
                 changes which may have occurred in the vicinity to support the
                 proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services
                 likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                 district.

Ordinance 790                                  -                                         8/15/68
                                                                                       Film 91
                                                                                        0207

        The Board finds that the proposed zone change is appropriate considering the
surrounding land uses. The surrounding land uses consist of a bed and breakfast, the
pre-existing quarry, and several wineries and related vineyards. The Board has
already adopted findings in Section IX.B that the proposed use will not have adverse
external impacts that could affect the wineries and vineyards, and the Board has
adopted a condition of approval requiring that existing agricultural uses shall not be
required to modify their existing accepted practices to accommodate the hotel, and
other conditions that will ensure compatibility with adjacent uses The proposed hotel
is likely to be beneficial to the adjacent bed and breakfast because it will provide
additional visibility to the area, and additional potential guests for the bed and
breakfast. The Board finds that, for the reasons stated above in Section IX, the zone
change is appropriate for the density and pattern of development in the area, based on
the limited nature of the rezoning of the 65-acre parcel, the proposed location of the
hotel on the site and its relatively small size, the extinguishing of the existing quarry
use, and the reasons explained above regarding the locationally-specific nature of the
proposed use. Also, the hotel will not introduce large-scale traffic demands, and
proposes no public utilities. The Board has adopted findings regarding availability of
utilities and services. The only public services necessary to support the use are public
roads, sheriff services and fire service. The existing public road is appropriate for
sheriff and fire services reaching the use.

          D.    Other lands in the County already designated for the proposed
                uses are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the
                anticipated uses due to location, size or other factors.

        Detailed findings addressing alternative locations are set forth above in Section
IX of these findings. As previously stated, the proposed use has special features that
necessitate location on the proposed site, which provides excellent access to the
county's expanding wine industry. As explained in the ECONorthwest analysis and
the applicants' separate alternatives analysis, there are no other areas in the county
with zoning that would allow the proposed use that are sufficient size and location to
accommodate this type of use. The use requires at least 35 acres in the wine country
area, away from major highways, with expansive views of the countryside. The
analyses submitted by the applicants consider both urbanized and unincorporated
portions of Yamhill County, and correctly conclude that no other parcels in Yamhill
County already designated for the proposed use would accommodate the proposed
hotel.

          E.    The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon
                Administrative Rules (OARs) for exceptions, if applicable.

Ordinance 790                                --                                       ‘8/15/68
                                                                                      Film 91
                                                                                       0208

       Compliance with the applicable OARs governing exceptions is addressed in
Section IX above.

XII.      RESPONSES TO ISSUES RAISED BY OPPONENTS

        The majority of issues raised by opponents that are relevant to applicable
approval criteria are addressed in the findings set forth above. In addition to those
findings, the Board adopts the following findings in response to specific issues raised
by opponents.

          A.     Lack of Precedential Effect

        Several opponents suggest that if the Board of Commissioners approves this
application and related goal exceptions, the decision will create precedent that will
require the county to also approve future applications for development on farmland.
However, the statute regarding exceptions expressly requires that approval of an
exception does not establish precedent for future applications:

                 "As used in this section, 'exception' means a comprehensive plan
                 provision, including an amendment to an acknowledged
                 comprehensive plan, that is applicable to specific properties or
                 situations and does not establish a planning or zoning policy of
                 general applicability." ORS 197.732(8)(a).

          The Board finds that approval of one quasi-judicial land-use application cannot
legally set a precedent for future land use approvals. LUBA has recognized that a
local government cannot be bound by findings that were made in previous land use
decisions. See, e.g., Jaffer et al. v. City of Monmouth, LUBA No. 2005-123, April 24,
2006, at slip op. 8 (holding that a prior denial of a similar application on the same
property did not create binding precedent in subsequent city decision).    In Femling v.
Coos County, 34 Or LUBA 328 (1988), LUBA rejected arguments that the county
could be bound by prior findings on another land use application, explaining that:

                   "We held in Nelson v, Clackamas County, 19 Or LUBA 131, 140
           (1990) that our system of land use adjudication ‘is incompatible with
           giving preclusive effect to issues previously determined by a local
           government tribunal in another proceeding.’ Similarly, the county is not
           bound to resolve 'claims' made in one application consistently with
           ‘claims’ in earlier applications Nelson, 19 Or LUBA at 136. In short,
           nothing the county decided in the 1993 proceeding precludes or binds its
           decision in this proceeding."

Ordinance 790                                  --                                     8/15/@6
                                                                                         Film 914
                                                                                          0209

          Exceptions to the Statewide Planning Goals are very difficult to obtain, and
each application must stand or fall on its own specific factual situation. The Board's
conclusion that the applicable approval criteria are satisfied regarding the present
application does not create any precedent requiring that future exception applications
must also be approved.

          B.        Demand Exists for One Hotel

        Concerns were raised by DLCD and other individuals regarding the approval of
this application creating a “line at the door" of applicants attempting to site similar
hotel projects by relying on the same or similar reasons for the exceptions as the
applicants here. However, the Board finds that evidence in the record establishes that
the county will only be able to support one hotel of the unique variety proposed by the
applicants, and there is no economic basis to support a demand for a second hotel of
this type. The Board believes there is an opportunity for one such development and
more than one such development could not satisfy the applicable criteria because it
would not be economically viable. A second similar hotel would not be justifiable
economically as a coattail rider on the approval of this application.

          C.        The Application Does Not Propose a "Destination Resort."

        Several opponents argued that the application requested the siting of a "small
destination resort," and therefore should be denied under the destination resort criteria
of ORS         197.445 due to its location within 24 miles of the Metro UGB.   However, the
application does not propose a destination resort pursuant to ORS 197.435-467. The
site does not qualify as a destination resort location because it is not within the map of
eligible lands adopted by Yamhill County pursuant to ORS 197.455. Also, the
applicants' proposal is for map amendments affecting only approximately 12 acres of
property, which is less than the 20-acre minimum established by ORS 197.445(7).
Further, the applicant is not proposing to spend the amounts required for "recreational
facilities" under the same statutory section. The Board finds that opponents have not
explained why the county should be required to treat an application as a "destination
resort" where the application does not fit within the statutory criteria for such a resort
and the applicants have not requested treatment as a destination resort under the
county's plan and the applicable statutes. See Doherty v. Morrow County, 44 Or
LUBA 141 (2003).

          D.        Compliance With Goal 14 Exception Criteria

         Opponents express general disagreement with the premise that the county may
approve an "urban" hotel use on rural land under the applicable goal exception
criteria. However, the Board finds that this is precisely what the Goal 14 exception

Ordinance 790                                    iota                 .                  8/15/66
                                                                                     Film 94
                                                                                      0210

rules are designed to allow, so long as those criteria are satisfied. Opponents assert
that the applicant may not be allowed to rely in part on a need for specific "rural"
characteristics in order to satisfy the applicable criteria for a goal exception.
However, the actual criteria set forth in the applicable state rules contain no such
prohibition. Rather, the rules provide that the county may approve the requested
exception if it finds that the proposed development cannot be "reasonably
accommodated" within an urban area or through the expansion of a UGB. The
applicant has submitted a significant amount of evidence on which the Board has
adopted findings that the proposed use cannot be reasonably accommodated on urban
land, or other land that would not require an exception, and that the applicable criteria
for the requested exceptions are met.

          DLCD and other opponents have identified certain hotels in Napa Valley and
Sonoma Valley that are located in urban areas, and offered those hotels as evidence
that a wine country hotel does not need to be located in a rural setting. However, as
explained in the Board's findings in Section IX.B above, relying on the materials
submitted by the applicants and ECONorthwest, the applicants are proposing a very
distinct and unique type of luxury wine country hotel that cannot be duplicated in an
urban area. Indeed, evidence in the record from ECONorthwest dated May 25, 2006
addresses several of the other California hotels identified by opponents, and notes that
one of those hotels, the Hotel Healdsburg, is regularly complained about by guests due
to the noise of the surrounding urban area, and as a result the hotel provides earplugs
in each room for its guests. As discussed in the ECONorthwest correspondence, other
hotels identified by opponents can be readily distinguished from what is being
proposed by applicants here based on level of service and amenities provided, as well
as the overall environment. The proposed hotel is targeted at a distinct clientele of
"core" wine consumers who will travel great distances in order to be able to enjoy a
true wine country experience in Yamhill County. As described in more detail in
Section IX.B of these findings, that experience cannot be found in an urban setting.

          E.    Appropriateness of RC Zoning

        Opponents assert that it is not clear from the YCZO list of allowed uses in the
Recreational Commercial zone whether the proposed hotel would be an allowed use in
that zone, because it is not clear what the "recreational" element of the proposed hotel
will be. First, the Board notes that there is not currently a development application
before the county for the proposed hotel, and this issue will be most appropriately
determined at the time an actual development application is submitted, rather than
during this map amendment process. The Board also notes that the applicant's
tentative proposal includes recreational uses such as tennis courts, a swimming pool,
and hiking trails on the property, and that the RC zone also expressly allows "any use

Ordinance 790                               -                                        8/15/86
                                                                                        Film 91
                                                                                         0211

not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use in this district that is similar in
character, scale and performance to the permitted uses specified in subsection
601.02." YCZO 601.04. Such a use may be allowed as a "similar use," subject to the
provisions of YCZO 1206.

          F.    Site Size

        Several opponents contend that because the applicants are requesting a rezone
for only 12 acres of the entire 65-acre parcel, the applicants erroneously imposed a 35-
acre minimum site size for purposes of the alternatives analysis. However, the Board
finds that the basis for the 12-acre request is simply to minimize the amount of EFU
land that is redesignated by only changing the map designations for the footprint of
the hotel, parking, and access road to the property. The fact that the paved and
constructed areas of the site plan only constitute 12 acres does not change the need for
a minimum of 35 acres to site the hotel. The additional property is required for open
space, views, and a proposed vineyard, which leaves land in agricultural production
and contributes to the necessary ambiance of a luxury wine country hotel. The Board
finds that the opponents' suggestion that this hotel could be successfully located on a
12-acre site in an urban area is incorrect. The expected economic benefit to the
county and its wine tourism industry will not occur if the hotel is not successful.

          G.    Applicability of Goal 9

         In correspondence dated June 7, 2006, DLCD raises concerns regarding the
application of the exceptions criteria, noting that the applicant has based its proposal
in part on the economic development elements of Goal 9, and asserting that there is no
Goal 9 requirement that applies to this application. The Board disagrees with DLCD's
apparent position that Goal 9 is essentially meaningless. Goal 9 expressly states that
its purpose is "to provide adequate opportunities ... for a variety of economic
activities vital to the health, welfare and prosperity of Oregon's citizens." The Board
finds that Goal 9 is designed to encourage economic development, which will be one
direct result of the proposed wine country hotel. The benefits of the proposed hotel on
the Yamhill County economy are explained in the analysis and supplemental
memoranda submitted by Eric Fruits of ECONorthwest, and the economic need for a
hotel of this type has been well documented through evidence placed in the record
before the Planning Commission and the Board. DLCD concedes that providing
overnight lodging “may well be needed to support the economy of the county," and the
Board agrees with this statement. The Board notes that ORS 197.340(1) provides that
local governments, as well as both DLCD and LCDC, "shall give the goals equal
weight in any matter in which the goals are required to be applied." Because the
Statewide Planning Goals are intended to have equal weight, the county's need for

Ordinance 790                                 a                                          8/15/86
                                                                                        Film 91
                                                                                         0212

economic development can certainly provide a justification for exceptions under
Goals 2 and 14, provided that all of the applicable criteria are met.

XH.       CONCLUSION

        Based on all of the findings set forth above and all of the evidence in the
record, the Board of Commissioners approves the applications with a limited use
overlay that contains the following conditions:

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:

       The Board attaches the following conditions of approval to its findings
regarding Ordinance No. 790.

        1.     Quarry rights will be terminated with final approval of the
comprehensive plan and zoning map amendments and final approval of Site Design
Review. Final approval shall be the date that all appeals are exhausted on the above
land use applications.

       2.    The applicant’s Site Design Review application shall include "green
development" provisions, to be determined in the Site Design Review approval and
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (a) vehicle trip reduction; (b) energy
conservation; (c) waste water reuse; and (d) building material conservation.

       3.     The. Site Design Review. application shall include a construction
management plan. The applicant shall coordinate with neighboring property owners
during construction to minimize construction impacts on surrounding property owners.

          4.    The approved use shall include a hotel operator with a demonstrated
track record of successfully executing boutique "get-away" hotels. The hotel operator
shall strive for a high rating by a rating group such as The Mobil Guide or The
Michelin Guide.

        5.    This exception approval shall be limited to the description of the use and
the acreage proposed by the applicant at the June 7, 2006 public hearing.

       6.   The Site Design Review shall be a Type "C" process before the Planning |
Commission as described in Section 1301.01(C) of the Yamhill County Zoning
Ordinance.

        7.    During Site Design Review the applicant shall demonstrate that the well
will provide an adequate quantity and quality of water for the proposed use.

Ordinance 790                                -                                         8/15/68
                                                                                       Film 91
                                                                                        0213

          8.    If the applicant does not receive a water right within three years of the
final date that all appeals have been resolved on the zone change, the Planning
Commission shall initiate a comprehensive plan amendment and zone change from
RC Recreation Commercial to EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use pursuant to Section
1208.01(A) of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

          9.    The applicant shall waive their Measure 37 (2004) claim upon final
approval of their comprehensive plan and zoning map amendment. Final approval
shall be the date that all appeals are exhausted on the above land use application.

        10.    Prior to issuance of development permits, the landowner shall sign an
affidavit acknowledging the following declaratory statement and record it in the deed
and mortgage records for Yamhill County: "The subject property is located in an area
designated by Yamhill County for agricultural uses. It is the county policy to protect
agricultural operations from conflicting land uses in such designated areas. Accepted
agricultural practices in this area may create inconveniences for the owners,
occupants, or guests of the proposed hotel. It is not the agricultural operator's
responsibility to modify accepted practices to accommodate the owner, occupants or
guests of the hotel, with the exception of such operator's violation of state law."

          End

                                                                               Ethibi Ag
Ordinance 790                                 ad                               GA      8/15/66
                                                                              Bo. 06             5b
                                   EXHIBIT "B" FOR ORDINANCE No. 790                            Film 91
                                                                                                 0214
                            COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
                     AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING TO COMMERCIAL

                          ZONE CHANGE FROM EF-80 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                               TO RC RECREATION COMMERCIAL USE

                          T.L. 3333-320

                                                                                     fo                       :

Legend
                                                                                      ORDINANCE No.: 790
-LZZZ] Area Subject to Amendment          Zs                                                   EXHIBIT "B"
a      | Subject Parcel                   N    |                                      Zp. é. 06   -S6     4
                                                   Prepared by Yamhill County Department of Planning and Development