IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                  FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending Ordinance 841
to correct the tax lot number and heading as follows:

                                                                 eeeee
Approval of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment from
Public to Commercial and a Zone Change from Parks,
Recreation and Open Space (PRO) to Recreation Commercial                  ORDINANCE 842
(RC) on Tax Lot 3331-100, 8243 NE Abbey Road, Carlton,
Applicant Bruce Bandstra, Planning Docket PAZ-02-09;

                                                                 ee
and to Add the Zone Map as Exhibit “B”; and Declaring an
Emergency.

                                                                 Nee
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (“the Board”) sat for the
transaction of County business in formal session on September 23, 2009, Commissioners Leslie Lewis,
Kathy George, and Mary P. Stern being present.

IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that on September 9, 2009, the Board adopted Ordinance 841
approving the Plan Amendment and Zone Change for Planning Docket PAZ-02-09; and

IT FURTHER APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the tax lot listed on the cover page of Ordinance 841
was erroneously referenced as Tax Lot 5316-2800, rather than properly referred to as Tax Lot 3331-100,
and that the zone map (Exhibit “B”) had been inadvertently omitted; NOW THEREFORE,

IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD that the tax lot number having been corrected in the
heading above and the exhibit map having been included as Exhibit “B”, and an emergency having been
declared to exist, Ordinance 842 is adopted effective upon passage here.

DONE this 23" day of September, 2009, at McMinnville, Oregon.

                                  BM Ne Of
ATTEST                                  YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

REBEKAH STERN DG
County Clerk                                r              Vv"      LESLIE LEWIS

                                        EE “tre                     Sore

    Ne: Lo:                  ~~         Commissioner |
                                                  v
                                                                    MARY P. STERN
Rick Sanai
Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                          Ordinance 842
                                                                                        ‘B.0. 09-513
Exhibit "A" - FINDINGS:

DOCKET:                          PAZ-02-09

REQUEST:                         Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Public to
                                 Commercial and a zone change from PRO Parks, Recreation and
                                 Open Space to RC Recreation Commercial. The purpose of the
                                 change is to allow the expansion of the existing bed and breakfast
                                 to a “Country Inn” and to allow the serving of evening meals to
                                 guests.

APPLICANT:                       Bruce Bandstra

REPRESENTATIVE:                  Jeff Evans, Attorney at Davis Wright Tremaine.

TAX LOTS:                        3331-100

LOCATION:                        8243 NE Abbey Road, Carlton, Oregon

CRITERIA:                        Sections 405, 601,   904, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                                 Ordinance, applicable Comprehensive Plan policies, and OAR 660-
                                 12-0060 Transportation Planning Rule.

         Background Facts:
(>

i.       Property size: 20.72 acres.

2.       Access: Abbey Road, a paved County road,

3.       On-site Land Use: The parcel is approximately a triangle with the hypotenuse along
         Abbey Road. The northeast section of the parcel contains a pond that is used for trout
         fishing.    The applicant estimates the pond is approximately 4.5 acres in size.
         Approximately 3/4 of the pond is on the applicant’s property. The highest elevation is
         300 feet which is at the northwest corner of the lot. The lowest elevation is a little less
         than 160 feet along the southwest corner of the lot. The property is developed with
         several structures including the main house, a carriage house, meditation/reading cottage
         and several outbuildings.     There is a small open grass field near the middle of the
         property with the remainder of the parcel forested.

4.       Surrounding Land Use: Property in the surrounding area is generally in farm use. Land
         to the east, across Abbey     Road,   is owned   and farmed by the Trappist Abbey.     The
         entrance to the Trappist Abbey is approximately 4 mile north of the subject parcel.    The
         uses in the surrounding area include grass and grain crops, livestock and vineyards.

5.       Surrounding Zoning: Zoning to the north and east is EF-80, Exclusive Farm Use. Zoning
         to the west is EF-40. The zoning south of the furthest point of the parcel is MR-1
         Mineral Resource.

DWT 13330739vi 00835 12-000003                                                         @-6-04-5See-
                                                                                       “Bo.04- 543
         Water: The existing dwelling on the subject property is served by an on-site well.

         Sewage Disposal: Provided by an on-site septic system.

         Fire Protection: Cariton Rural Fire District

         Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows approximately 2/3 of the property is
         Carlton silt loam, agricultural Class II soils.   The remaining third is made up of
         Willakenzie Class IV soils and Wapato Class II soils.

10.      Taxes: Classified as open space.       One acre is at market value.     The remaining acreage is
         receiving farm deferral.

11,      Previous Actions and History:         On June 20, 1979 the property was identified as part of
         Ordinance 202. Ordinance 202 listed properties that qualified for an Exception to
         Statewide planning Goals 3 and 4 based on the property being physically developed or
         irrevocably committed to nonresource use.’ In 1994 the property owners were approved
         for Site Design Review (Docket # SDR-01-94) to operate a retreat facility, which the then
         owners named “His Hiding Place”. The owners at that time were offering lodging
         accommodations in both the “Main House” and the “Bunk House.” In addition to the
         lodging, the previous owners also hosted weddings throughout the summer and special
         events for groups and individuals. The current owners of the subject parcel, Bruce and
         Susan Banstra, requested approval for a similar use approval to allow the retreat center to
         be used as a bed and breakfast and to host weddings and similar events. This was
         approved through Docket SU-01-07.

12.      Floodplain: FIRM 410249 0175 C, shows that the property, is not within the 100-year
         flood hazard area.

13.      Fish and Wildlife: Although the property has a stream running through it, and a pond with
         fish, the property is not identified as critical fish or wildlife habitat. (Approximately 1/4
         of a mile downstream (southwest) the stream is identified as resident trout spawning and
         rearing.)

14.      Groundwater Limited Area: The property is not identified as being in a Critical or
         Groundwater Limited Area.

15.      Request: The applicant desires to establish a “Country Inn.” In the pre-application
         conference Mr. Bandstra described the size of the facility he desired as being
         approximately 15 rooms. The zoning ordinance does not have a separate classification of
         “Country Inn.”          The ordinance allows a “Motel” in the HC Highway Commercial zone.
         The HC zone did not appear to be appropriate for this area as the property was not adjacent
         to the highway and the definition in “Motel” did not specify dining or food service.             The
         RC Recreation Commercial zone allows a “Resort” which is defined as: Any area of land
         or water used for open-land commercial or private recreation where overnight lodging,

         lt should be noted that this application is significantly different from previous requests for
lodging in the rural area because the subject property has had an exception from Goals 3 and 4 taken
based on the property being built and committed to something other than resource use.

DWT 13330739v1 00835 12-000003
         meals, and related tourist services are provided in conjunction with such recreational use.
         The existing recreational use on the property is the fishing pond. While the requested use
         appears to fall within the definition of “Resort”, because there is not a category of
         “Country Inn”, the decision-makers may want to consider adding a new category, either
         through ordinance amendments or through approval of a similar use application.

         Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis
bg

1.       Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards
         and criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

         (4)      The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies,         and any other
                  applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

         (B)      There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                  requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
                  economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
                  the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
                  uses allowed by the zone.

         (C}      The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
                  density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                  occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
                  utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                  district.

         (D)   — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
                 unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
                  other factors.

         (E)      The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
                  exceptions, if applicable.

2.       Regarding criterion (A) above, the Applicant addressed all of the applicable goals and
         polices of the Comprehensive Plan on pages 2-6 of the applicant’s narrative. Those
         responses are sufficient to demonstrate compliance with this criterion and are
         incorporated here by reference.

3.       Criterion (B) and (D) are similar so they will be considered together.   With Criterion (B),
         the applicant needs to show there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses
         allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or
         the economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
         the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
         allowed by the zone. Similar to that is 1208.02(D), which requires showing that those
         other parcels, already zoned for the proposed use are either unavailable or not as well
         suited to the proposed use due to location, size or other factors.

DWT 13330739v1 0083512-000003
        To address these factors the applicant submitted anecdotal information about his
        experience with the Brookside Inn and the desires expressed by his clientele. The guests
        have requested dinners.    Related to that, the applicant has also received numerous
        requests for dining related to their corporate meetings.     The Applicant’s narrative
        response to criterion (B) and (D) are incorporated here as findings. The applicant’s
        concluding paragraph to support 1208.02(B) states:

                  “The success and growth of the Yamhill County wine industry is dependent upon
                 the ability to attract tourists and visitors with alternatives for traveling to wine
                 country destinations in other parts of the country. To the extent that Yamhill
                 county can offer a variety of dining and lodging accommodations, the more likely
                 it will be that Yamhill County can continue to enhance this sector of its economy.
                 Brookside Inn is uniquely positioned to accommodate a portion of the existing,
                 unmet market demand, and would like to satisfy a portion of that demand through
                 the expansion of dining options and increased capacity.”

        The statements in the application and the conclusion are directly in line with a draft
        report on the Yamhill County Agri-Business Economic and Community Development Plan
        related to The Future for Yamhill County Tourism.       The report states, “The most
        significant and most promising opportunities to expand Yamhill County tourism appear
        to include:

                 Lodging: more lodging properties offering more rooms, a various price points -
                 from luxury to affordable, in all parts of the county with convenient access to the
                 wineries.      Ancillary facilities; meeting rooms, restaurants, spas, etc.”

        Near the top of page 6 it lists “Success Factors”. The draft report states, “Key ingredients
        Jor success in growing Yamhill County’s tourism sector are identified below:

         i,      Expanding        lodging    options:      The   most   immediate   need   is for a variety   of
                 additional lodging properties and more hotel rooms to accommodate                    overnight
                 Stays, across the county.
                 Altracting travelers who stay in hotels and related establishments is crucial.
                 From     1991-2007,        expenditures     of Oregon    lodgers   increased year-to-year    an
                 average of 17% in comparison with a 6% increase in day travelers.”

        There appears to be a need for additional accommodations and the ancillary facilities that
        the applicant proposes to supply. That being said, the next question is whether other
        lands in the County already designated for the proposed use are either unavailable or not
        as well suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size or other factors, The RC zone
        is not an abundant zone in the County. The only RC zone within this area was the Bayou
        Golf Course, which has approximately 100 acres between two tax lots. Based on the
        availability of other RC zones, it does not appear that other County zoned property is
        available for the use.

        One of the “other factors” that makes other locations not as well suited for the proposed
        use is the existence of the small lake on the property. The lake is actually what appeared
        to have spurred the owner to request the property be designated PRO in the late 1970's.

DWT 13330739vi 0083512-000003
         At that time the location was referred to as “Walden Pond.”          It would be difficult, if not
         impossible, to find any other properties in the County that contain a similar arrangement.

         Regarding criterion (C), public notice was mailed to surrounding property owners.           So far
         no written comments have been received.          The existing structures and therefore the focus
         of the use is located near the middle of the property. During the similar use application
         that was processed in March of 2007 our office also received no objections from
         neighboring properties. It appears the existing forest, the topography, and the layout of
         the property all work together to make the use appropriate and compatible considering
         the surrounding land uses.

         Regarding the availability of utilities and services in the area, an expansion of the number
         of rooms may need additional septic service. The lot appears to be large enough and
         have adequate soils to allow for on site septic to serve the use. Other services such as
         electricity, telephone, sheriff and fire protection already serve the property. No extension
         of water or sewer service is being relied upon for this request.

         Regarding criterion (E), exceptions to Goal 3 and 4 were already taken in 1979 the as part
         of Ordinance 202. DLCD has written in a letter stating that “fujnless the county and
         applicant can show that the use will be limited by application of a base zone and/or a
         limited use overlay zone to allow only a “rural” use consistent with Goal 14, a reasons
         exception to Goal 14 is required.” As DLCD suggested, the Applicant requested that the
         County utilize Section 904 of the Yamhil! County Zoning Ordinance to place a Limited
         Use Overlay on the rezoned property. This would ensure compliance with Goal 14, and
         no exception would be necessary. The limited use overlay proposed in the Staff Report is
         consistent with DLCD’s approach to Goal 14 in other jurisdictions, and would result in
         less dense development potential than what is currently allowed. As displayed in the
         codes for many surrounding and similarly situated counties in the state, including Polk,
         Linn, Washington, and Douglas counties, the provisions from the Marion County code
         cited in the Staff Report (incorporated here by reference) are consistent with DLCD’s
         efforts to ensure compliance with Goal 14. The proposed limitations carried out through
         the Limited Use Overlay District are consistent with the rural commercial uses DLCD
         has allowed in other counties throughout the state, including Marion County, and are thus
         consistent with Goal 14. In addition, as discussed in the Staff Report, the requested
         Recreation Commercial District has larger minimum lot size than does the existing PRO
         zone. This further ensures that the rural nature of the property and the surrounding area
         will be preserved.

         Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis
in

         The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal                12, must be
         addressed. OAR 660-012-0060 contains the provisions that must be met:

         (1)      Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land
                  use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure
                  that allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and
                  level of service of the facility.   This shall be accomplished by either:
                  (a)      Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                           capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;

DWT 13330739v1 00835 12-000003
                  (6)     Amending the TSP (Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                          Jacilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                           requirements of this division, or,
                  (¢)     Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                           demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.
         (2)     A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
                 facility if it:
                  (a)     Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
                          transportation facility,
                 (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
                  (¢)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or
                          access which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
                           transportation facility, or
                  (d)      Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                           acceptable level identified in the TSP.

         Regarding (1) and (2), the applicant has not submitted a traffic study.     However, much of
         the use is already established on the property. The applicant desires to increase the
         number of rooms to rent and allow limited dining opportunities. The applicant maintains
         that Abbey Road is well under-capacity and it is reasonable to presume that the proposed
         minimal increase in daily visitors will not have significant affect on the transportation
         system. While this appears to be true, the Applicant will be required to submit a
         transportation impact analysis as a condition of approval.      Given the limitation on
         allowed uses pursuant to the Limited Use Overlay and larger minimum lot size of the RC
         zone, the Board finds that the comprehensive plan amendment and zone change do not
         significantly affect a transportation facility.

         Limited Use Overlay Provisions
iy

         OAR     660-04-18(3)(a)    states that when     a reasons   exception is taken, plan and     zone
         designations must limit uses to only those that are justified in the exception.

         Section 904.03 of the YCZO contains provisions for limited use overlays. It states:

        (A)       When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
                  underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance
                  adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.

         (B)      The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require               conditional    use
                  approval for uses normally permitted outright.

         (©)     Reasonable conditions may be imposed in the Limited Use Overlay District as are
                 necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan
                 and this ordinance.

         (D)      Until the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses in an LU
                  district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.

DWT 13330739v1 0083512-000003
         Because the RC Recreation Commercial zone allows other commercial uses which have
         not been evaluated to determine whether they are appropriate to the area, it is appropriate
         to apply a Limited Use Overlay to allow uses on the rezoned area to a 20-room Country
         Inn with the following limits on accessory uses:

                    The property is not approved for a restaurant.

                    Lunch or dinner may be served to overnight guests of the Country Inn or an
                    equivalent number equal to the capacity of the Inn.

                    On-site gatherings, with meal service, are limited to no more than 200 people.

                    Additional construction on the property is limited to a footprint of no more than
                    3,506 square feet.

THE BOARD FINDS:

1.       The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Public to Commercial and a
         zone change from PRO to RC.

2.       The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

3.       An exception to Goal 14 is not required because the uses are limited by application of a
         limited use overlay consistent with the provisions of Section 904.03 of the YCZO.

4.       The proposed change is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.02.

5.       The proposed change complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

DECISION:

The request by Bruce Bandstra for a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Public to Commercial
and a zone change from PRO Parks, Recreation and Open Space to RC Recreation Commercial is
hereby approved, with the following conditions of approval:

1.       The property is not approved for a restaurant, as defined in the findings for the limited use
         overlay.

         Lunch or dinner may be served to overnight guests of the Country Inn or an equivalent
         number based on the capacity of the Inn.

         On-site gatherings are limited to no more than 200 people,

? For purposes of this Ordinance, a “restaurant” is defined as a facility that derives more than
fifty percent of its revenue from the preparation and sale of food and drink to the public in a
format that serves walk-in customers without reservations and provides more than a single-
seating per meal.
DWT 13330739v1 00835 12-000003
  4,       Additional construction on the property is limited to a footprint of no
                                                                                   more than 3,500
           square feet.

                                                                                      Be    Oe

DWT 13330739v1 00835 12-000003
                   EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 841
                  PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZONE CHANGE
       ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
             FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
                      .           PUBLIC
                                    TO
                             COMMERCIAL AND
                 TO CHANGE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FROM
                 PRO PARKS, RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE
                                    TO
                        RC RECREATION COMMERCIAL

                                             engage
                     Roszisw

                               400
                                 20.72 AC.

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOTS 3331-100 AS IDENTIFIED ABOVE.
APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 400 FEET                      “$.0.09- 543°
                                                                          6
   ’                                                                .          a“

                                                           Of. oA   vee       Pyar