99 APR IS P3:26
          IN THE BOARD       OF COMMISSIONERS            OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                              FOR THE COUNTY        OF YAMHILL

                 SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

                                                                              val    7 tae
In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the          )                 FALE   66 PAGE Leb
Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974)            )
Map from "AFLH"      (Agriculture Forestry Large    )
Holding) to "Public"and Amending the Official       )              ORDINANCE        670
Zoning Map from "EP-80" (Exclusive Farm Use)        )
to "PALF" (Public Airports/Landing Fields), and     )
Taking an Exception to Goal 3 on a 7.3 acre         )
portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301, Approving a           )
Lot Line Adjustment to Add the 7.3 acres from       _)
Tax Lot 3309-2301 to Tax Lot 3309-2400, and         +)
Approving Site Design Review to Construct           )
Aircraft Hangars on the 7.3 acre portion of         )
Tax Lot 3309-2301; Applicant Dennis                 )
Sturdevant; Docket PAZ-01-99, L-02-99,              )
SDR-02-99, and Declaring an Emergency.              )

       THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business in special session on April 15, 1999, Commissioners
Robert Johnstone, Ted Lopuszynski, and Thomas E. E. Bunn being present.

       WHEREAS, on January 15, 1999, the Department of Planning and Development received
an application by Dennis Sturdevant ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-01-99, L-02-99, SDR-
02-99, for a Comprehensive Plan map amendment from "AFLH" (Agriculture Forestry Large
Holding) to "Public", a zone change from "EF-80" (Exclusive Farm Use) to "PALF" (Public
Airports/Landing Fields), an Exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 on a 7.3 acre portion of Tax
Lot 3309-2301,    a lot line adjustment to add the 7.3 acres from Tax Lot 3309-2301       to Tax Lot
3309-2400 (Chehalem Airpark), and site design review to construct aircraft hangars on the 7.3
acre portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301; and

       WHEREAS,       on February 9, 1999, the application was deemed complete, and on March
4, 1999, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider the application and thereafter
voted 7-0 to recommend approval of the request; and

        WHEREAS, on April 1, 1999, the Board held a public hearing on the application, and
following the close of the hearing, voted unanimously to tentatively approve the plan amendment,
zone change,   exception to statewide Goal 3, lot line adjustment, and site design review; and

                                                                                  ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                       Exhibit "A"
                                                                BA.      94-255               Page 1
       WHEREAS,       the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated
herein by this reference provide justification for approval of the application for the amendment to
the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Map and Official Zoning Map, and that approval thereof
is in the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill County;          Now Therefore,

       THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1. The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Map (1974), as amended, is hereby
amended to reflect a plan designation of "P" (Public) on the 7.3 acre portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301
as more particularly shown on the map attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "B."

       Section 2.      The Official Zoning Map, as amended, is hereby amended to reflect a zoning
designation of "PALF" (Public Airports/Landing Fields) on the 7.3 acre portion of Tax Lot 3309-
2301 as more particularly shown on the map attached hereto and incorporated herein as                    Exhibit
"BO

       Section 3.       A lot line adjustment is approved to transfer the 7.3 acres from Tax Lot
3309-2301 to Tax Lot 3309-2400,         as more particularly shown on the map attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit "B."

        Section 4.     Site design review        is approved to construct aircraft hangars on the 7 acre
portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301.

        Section 5. The lot line adjustment and site design review approvals under this ordinance
are subject to the following conditions:

       1.      The adjusted lots shall be surveyed pursuant to Section 6.120 of the Yamhill County
               Land Division       Ordinance   and a copy       of the survey shall be submitted to the
               Planning Director prior to final approval.

       2.      A copy of the instrument(s) conveying the adjusted property shall be submitted to
               the Planning Department prior to recording with the County Clerk. The names on
               the instrument(s) conveying the property shall be the same as they appear in the tax
               records of Yamhill County.             :

       3.      The   instruments     conveying     the   adjusted.   properties   shall   either   describe   the
               readjusted lots in their entirety, or, if the instrument describes only that area being
               conveyed from one property to the adjoining property, the following statement shall
               be placed on the instrument:

                       "This conveyance is made solely as an adjustment of common boundary
                       between adjoining properties, and does not create a separate parcel that can
                       be conveyed independently of adjacent land."

                                                                                             ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                                  Exhibit "A"
                                                                                                         Page 2
                                                                                rd OG ace L2U6
       4.      All building locations shall comply with FAA standards for minimum distances from
               the runway unless a letter is submitted from either the FAA or State Aeronautics
               Division affirming that the hangers may be located closer to the runway.            The
               buildings shall be located at least 30 feet from all property lines unless they are less
               than 15 feet in height, in which case they may be located a minimum of 3 feet from
               the side or rear property line.

        Section 5.    In adopting the plan amendment specified in Section 1, the County hereby
takes an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3.

        Section 6.    The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference
are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

       Section 7.      Emergency Clause.     This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist,
is effective upon passage.

       DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 15th day of April, 1999.

                                            Pobact Cpbeties
                                       YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                       Chairman              (OBERT JOHNSTONE

By:    5                                Ted         Loonie pycaber
Deputy              ‘Ain White         Commissioner       () TEDLOPUSZYNSKI
FQRM    APPROVED BY:                      a
  ONC        eaug                           [hormes—           E.€.       Bunn.
SOHN C. PINKSYAFF                      Commissioner           THOMAS      E. E. BUNN
 Assistant County Counsel

EAADMIN\PINKSTNLUIPAZ0199, WPD

                                                                                     ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                          Exhibit "A"
                                                                                                Page 3
                                   ORDINANCE 670

                                       EXHIBIT "A"                      rik    OG nek 267

PLANNING COMMISSION'S APPROVAL:                           March 4, 1999

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS' APPROVAL:                         April 15, 1999

DOCKET:                     PAZ-01-99, L-02-99, SDR-02-99

REQUEST:                    A lot line adjustment to add approximately 7 acres of tax lot
                             3309-2301 to tax lot 3309-2400 (Chehalem Airpark), which
                            requires a Comprehensive Plan map amendment from Agriculture
                            Forestry Large Holding to Public, a zone change from EF-80
                            Exclusive Farm Use to PALF Public Airports/Landing Fields
                            district, and an Exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 on the 7
                            acre portion of tax lot 3309-2301.   The request is also for site
                            design review to construct aircraft hangars on the 7 acre portion
                            of tax lot 3309-2301.

APPLICANT:                  Dennis Sturdevant

TAX LOTS:                   3309-2301 and 2400

LOCATION:                   On the east side of Dopp Road, just north of the airport runway.

REVIEW CRITERIA:            Sections 803 and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance;
                            the Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance; OAR 660-04,
                            Exception Process.

FINDINGS:

A.   Background Facts:

1.   Property size: 7.3 acres of tax lot 3309-2301 is proposed to be rezoned and added to the
     airport, tax lot 3309-2400.

2.   Access: The airport fronts Dopp Road.      The proposed expansion area would be
     accessed from the airport property.

3.   On-site Land Use: The area that is proposed to be rezoned contains a hangar/pole
     building on the west end, an orchard in the center, and a cleared field on the east end.
     The remainder of that tax lot contains a single family residence near Dopp Road.       The

                                                                              ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                         Page 1
                                                                           rik GG nceLZe8
      airport, which consists of Tax Lots 3309-2400, 2403, 2405, 2406, 2408 and 3310-305,
      contains a paved runway, a hangar/office building, fueling area and an area for tying
      down aircraft.

      Surrounding Land Use: The surrounding area is a level valley bisected by Chelialem
      Creek,   The area is used for farming, but there are a number of dwellings in the
      vicinity, including four dwellings on smail lots adjacent to the airport. Ewing Young
      School is approximately 1/4 mile to the north, and there is a church approximately 3/4
      mile to the northwest on North Valley Road. About 4 mile to the southeast, where the
      topography changes from the valley floor to hills, is a large area of rural residential
      properties.

      Surrounding Zoning: Except for the airport properties, which are zoned PALF, the
      surrounding area is zoned EF-80. The rural residential area to the southeast is zoned
      AF-10, and Ewing Young School is zoned Public Assembly Institutional.

      Water: Any water would be supplied by a well.

      Sewage Disposal: None existing on the 7.3 acres.    There is an on-site septic system
      serving the airport office building.

      Fire Protection: Newberg Rural Fire Protection District

      Soils: Sheet 15 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the entire area is
      composed of Briedwell (Br) soil, which is Class II high-value farmland.

10.   Taxes: The 7.3-acres is taxed at market value

11.   Previous Actions: Tax Lot 3309-2300 was divided from Tax Lot 3309-2301 in 1974
      (Docket P-325-74). A plan amendment and zone change from EF-40 to PALF were
      approved in 1992 on Tax Lots 3309-2408 and what is now 3310-305 (Docket PAZ-01-
      32).

12.   Description of Proposal: The applicant proposes acquiring 7.3 acres from a property
      that is adjacent to the north, and using the property to construct aircraft hangars. Since
      the property is zoned EF-80, a zone change and exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3
      are required.

      Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis
*

      The Plan Amendment portion of the request is not subject to local review criteria.

                                                                            ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                         Page 2
                                                                    Fils     b6   ace Le

The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and criteria in
YCZO Section 1208.02.       These provisions are:

(A)     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
        applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

(B)     There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
        requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
        economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy,
        and the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for
        the uses allowed by the zone.

(C)     The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
        density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
        occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability
        of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the
       proposed district.                                                          :

(D)     Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
        unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size,
        or other factors.

(E)     The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
        exceptions, if applicable.

YCZO 1208.02 (A).       The Comprehensive Plan goals and policies which may be
pertinent are:

Agricultural Lands Policy IL.A.2.a: Yamhill County will continue to preserve those
areas for farm use which exhibit Class I through IV soils as identified in the Capability
Classification System of the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.

The airport and the area that is proposed for rezoning contain Class II high-value
farmland, so the proposal does not comply with this goal.

Transportation Policy II.A.1.q: The status and proposed location or expansion of all
airport facilities will be specifically designated in the plan map, as amended, and, if
under county jurisdiction, will be accorded a planned-unit development designation in
the zoning ordinance, in order to assure a compatible association of airport growth
with surrounding urban development.

                                                                           ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                Exhibit "A"
                                                                                       Page 3
                                                                              rin OG vce 270

      If the plan designation is changed from EF to Public and an exception to Goal 3 is
      taken, then the proposed comprehensive plan designation of Public will be in
      compliance with the statewide goals, and the zone change to PALF would be consistent
      with the applicable comprehensive plan goals and policies.as required by YCZO
      1208.02(A).             ,

      YCZO 1208.02 (B). The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for
      the particular uses allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such
      uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which
      such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their
      suitability for the uses allowed by the zone, as required by YCZO     1208.02 (B).

4.1   The proposed use of the property is for the construction of hangars. The applicant has
      indicated that there is a lack of available hangar space for rent in the county, and that
      there is a waiting list of more than 20 people looking for hangar space at the airport.
      Letters from people who are on waiting lists for hangar space at both Chehalem Airpark
      and other airports in the vicinity have been submitted as evidence of this shortage.
      Staff contacted Galen McBee, manager of the McMinnville airport, who said that
      hangars for 20 single engine planes were constructed at the airport last year, and
      additional larger hangars for twin engine planes were built this year. He stated that this
      helped with the need for hangars, but that there is still a short waiting list. The owner
      of Sportsman Airpark in Newberg recently picked up an application for site design
      review to build more hangars there.

4.2   In order to address the economic importance of airport uses, the applicant has submitted
      copies of brochures from the ODOT Aeronautics Section describing the economic
      contribution that aviation makes to the state and area economy.     That information states
      that in 1995 the total output stemming from Chehalem Airpark was approximately $4.6
      million. Total full-time employment related to all airport activities, including
      secondary impacts, was estimated at 48 jobs, with an annual payroll of approximately
      $684,300 [see article "Economic Impact of Airports, Chehalem Airpark", ODOT -
      Aeronautics Section page 120].

      The availability and suitability of other PALF zoned lands is discussed in Finding B.6.

      YCZO 1208.02. (C). The Board finds that the proposed change. is appropriate
      considering the surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the
      area, any changes which may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed.
      amendment and the availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the
      anticipated uses in the proposed district, and therefore complies with YCZO 1208.02
      (C).

                                                                              ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                           Page 4
                                                                           ria OG oe AT

5.1   The land uses in the immediate vicinity consist of farm uses and residences. There is
      also a school within 1/4 mile and a church less than one mile away. The airport is
      compatible with many types of farm uses since part of the airport activity involves
      agricultural practices such as aerial spraying, Christmas tree harvesting, and using a
      helicopter to shake hazelnuts out of trees.   The overall housing density in the area is
      low because of the EF zoning, and there is unlikely to be much additional residential
      development. The majority of the AF-10 zoned area on the hills to the southeast has
      also been developed, although there are some vacant lots where dwellings would be
      permitted. The proposed change is appropriate considering that it is an expansion of an
      existing use, and will not affect the development pattern in the area, which will remain
      very low in density due to the surrounding zoning.

      There are no known changes which have occurred in the vicinity that would support
      the proposed zone change. No additional utilities or services are needed.

      YCZO 1208.02(D)      The Board finds that other lands in the county already designated
      for the proposed uses are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses
      due to location, size, or other factors, as required by YCZO 1208.02(D).

6.1   This criteria requires a finding that other land zoned PALF is either unavailable or not
      as well suited for the proposed use of airport hangars.   There are other airstrips in the
      county that are designated PALF.     Although hangars could possibly be constructed at
      some of these airstrips to meet the need for hangar space in the county, it would not
      address the issue of Chehalem Airpark’s desire to expand their operations. Location
      also plays a role in where pilots want to base their planes. In addition, Chehalem
      Airpark bas a paved runway, which many pilots find preferable to a grass or dirt strip.

      Staff requested that the applicant provide information about uses occurring on property
      owned by Chehalem Airpark that is already zoned PALF, to determine whether the
      hangars could be located on existing airport property. The airport currently consists of
      12.5 acres that is zoned PALF. Within this area are the paved runway, a 2500 square
      foot office and a 4900 square foot hangar. The runway extends in an east-west
      direction the full width of the property. Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77, as well
      as Section 907 of the YCZO, delineate the distance a building must be from the
      runway. No buildings are allowed within the primary surface, which extends 125 feet
      from the centerline of the runway. Beyond the primary surface is the transitional zone.
      Buildings shall not extend above an imaginary surface which extends upward at a slope
      of 7:1 from the outer edge of the primary surface. Thus if the proposed hangars were
      to be 10 feet in height, they could be no closer than 195 feet from the centerline of the
      runway. The applicant has submitted a map showing that the airport property extends
      approximately 200 feet south of the runway. Staff analysis shows that the distance may

                                                                              ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                         Page 5
                                                                                          a   yeh

                                                                        rie O8 ne Let

     be even less than this, closer to 150 feet. Regardless, there is not enough room to
     construct hangars within the PALF designated area that would meet the required 30
     foot setback from property lines and still be at least 195 feet from the runway
     centerline.                              :

     Exception requirements, criterion (E), are addressed in section C of these findings.

     Goal Exception Requirements and Analysis
Ip

     The 7-acre portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301 is currently protected as agricultural land
     under Statewide Planning Goal 3. OAR 660-12-065(3)(0) states that "Expansions or
     alterations of public use airports that do not permit service to a larger class of
     airplanes" is consistent with Goals 3, 4, 11 and 14. Chehalem Airpark has been
     proposed for inclusion on the list of public use airports adopted by ODOT
     Administrative Rule (Aviation Section). Although it has not been formally adopted by
     the Transportation Commission, adoption is expected to occur on March 18, 1999.
     Consequently, findings for taking an exception to Goal 3 are included in this decision.

     Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-04 contains the requirements for taking goal _
     exceptions. OAR 660-04-020 contains four factors that must be addressed when taking
     an exception to a goal. They are:

     (a)    Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals should not
            apply.

     (b)    Areas which do not require a new exception cannot reasonably accommodate the
            use.

     (c)    The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences
            resulting from the use at the proposed site with measures designed to reduce
            adverse impacts are not significantly more adverse than would typically result
            from the same proposal being located in other areas requiring a Goal exception.

     (d)    The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or will be so
            rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.

     OAR 660-04-020(a).      OAR 660-04-022 states that the reasons justifying why the state
     policy embodied in the goal should not apply include, but are not limited to, that there
     is a demonstrated need for the proposed use, and either: 1) a resource upon which the
     use is dependent can be reasonably obtained only at the exception site and the use must
     be located near the resource; or 2) the use has special features or qualities that

                                                                             ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                  Exhibit "A"
                                                                                        Page 6
                                                                                     (3
                                                                         eux OG mele
 necessitate its location on or near the proposed exception site. The request complies
  with 2) because the proposal is to expand an existing airport by constructing additional
  hangars. By nature, this must occur on property located within direct proximity of the
  airport runway. As discussed in Finding B.6, there is insufficient space for the airport
_ expansion on land zoned PALF for which an exception has already been taken.

 OAR 660-04-020 (b).     Since the proposal is to expand the Chehalem Airpark, it is only
 necessary to analyze lands adjacent to the airport to determine whether they could
 reasonably accommodate the use ~ exception lands in other areas would not be suitable
 because they would not have direct access to the airport runway. As stated in Finding
 B.6, land within the current airport boundary that is zoned PALF cannot reasonably
 accommodate the proposed new hangars because of existing buildings and the
 mandatory distance from runways that new buildings can be constructed. There is no
 other adjacent exception land. Of the surrounding resource land, the hangars could not
 be constructed on lands to the west, because it would require aircraft to taxi across
 Dopp Road. Constructing the hangars on land to the east would remove land from a
 144-acre commercial farm parcel. The land to the south consists of a 10-acre and 24-
 acre parcel, both in farm use. The configuration of these parcels is not as suitable for
 airport expansion, and not as easily accessible from the runway because there is a row
 of trees and a road between the airport and these properties..   The 7-acre area which is
proposed to be rezoned is the most suitable area for airport expansion because of the
 small parcel size, the existing building which is already being used as a hangar, the
 limited nature of the farm use occurring on the parcel, and the direct access to the
airport runway.

OAR 660-04-020 (c). The proposal is for an exception to allow an expansion of an
existing airport in a rural area. Although there would likely be an increase in the
number of flights to and from the airport, this will not significantly change the
economic, social, environmental or energy consequences resulting from the use. The
airport does not prevent farming activities from occurring in the area. The 7 acres that
are proposed to be added to the airport are not currently in farm use, and removing that
land from the resource base will not have any long-term economic impact on the area.

OAR 660-04-020 (d). As discussed in Finding B.5, airport activities are compatible
with and used in many aspects of farming. Approving the zone change will likely
result in an increase of aviation activities and number of flights, since it will allow more
aircraft to be based at the airport. The primary impact from increased flights is
increased noise levels both from aircraft warming up on the ground and flying over
properties.   The airport has instituted noise abatement procedures to reduce the impact
on nearby noise-sensitive uses, including directing aircraft to avoid flying over the
church and school. On-the-ground noise will have the greatest effect on the two houses

                                                                         ORDINANCE 670
                                                                              Exhibit "A"
                                                                                      Page 7
                                                                               rity OB nce           ?74
     to the west and to lot 2200, which is adjacent to the north. The Planning Commission
     may want to consider requiring as a condition of approval that fencing or vegetation be
     placed along the northern and western property lines of the 7-acre area if concerns
     about noise are raised by these property owners.

     Limited Use Overlay Provisions
iy

     OAR 660-04-18(3)(a) states that when a reasons exception is taken, plan and zone
     designations must limit uses to only those that are justified in the exception. The
     findings in this report have focused on the proposed use of the property for aircraft
     hangars.     However, ORS 836.616(2) contains a list of other airport-related activities
     that must be allowed at public use airports, including emergency medical flight
     services, law enforcement and firefighting activities, flight instruction, aircraft
     maintenance, crop dusting and other agricultural activities, aircraft rental and sales, sale
     of aeronautic equipment and supplies, and aeronautic recreational and sporting
     activities. The YCZO has not been amended to reflect that these activities must be
     permitted.

     Section 904.03 of the YCZO contains provisions for limited use overlays.         It states:

     (A)        When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
                underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance
                adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.

     (B)        The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require conditional use
                approval for uses normally permitted outright.

     (C)        Reasonable conditions may be imposed in the Limited Use Overlay District as
                are necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the Comprehensive
                Plan and this ordinance.

     (D)        Until the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses in an
                LU district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.

     Although Chehalem Airpark has not, as of the date of this report, been officially
     designated by ODOT as a public use airport, it appears fairly certain that it will be so
     designated. Since the uses listed in ORS 836.616 must be allowed at a public use
     airport, the Board finds that it is not necessary to place a limited use overlay on the
     airport.

                                                                               ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                    Exhibit "A"
                                                                                          Page 8
                                                                               eux OD vuced fe b fs)
                                                                                                 clad]
                                                                                                 one

    Lot Line Adjustment Analysis
=

    The application includes a request for a lot line adjustment to transfer 7.3 acres from
    Tax Lot 3309-2301 to Tax Lot 3309-2400, leaving a parcel in the EF-80 district just
    over an acre in size and containing a dwelling. The approval standards for lot line
    adjustments are found in Section 7.020 of the Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance .
    (LDO), as follows:

    (I)    All parcel sizes, property-line setbacks, and other dimensional attributes
           resulting from a lot-line adjustment shall conform to the provisions of this
           ordinance and the Zoning Ordinance or other ordinance. ‘Conditions that
           existed legally prior to the application that do not conform to the ordinance
           provisions shall be allowed to continue.

    (2)    Lot-line adjustments shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan and Official Map,
           any criteria of the Zoning Ordinance, and any state requirements of Oregon
           Revised Statutes chapters 92, 197, and 215.

    (3)    A lot-line adjustment shall not result in the creation of a new lot or a replat of
           an existing subdivision or partition.

    (4)    All lots resulting from a lot-line adjustment shall have legal access to a public
           road pursuant to Sections 6.010 and 6.020.

    Section 803.06(B) of the YCZO states that the minimum parcel size for an aircraft
    landing field shall be 10 acres. The parcel size for any other use, the minimum parcel
    width, and the maximum depth-to-width ratio shall be established by the decision-
    making body. The proposed adjustment will increase the size and width of the airport
    tract and decrease the depth to width ratio. The new configuration is suitable for the
    proposed use. Tax Lot 3309-2301 did not conform to the minimum lot size in the EF-
    80 district prior to the adjustment, so that situation is allowed to continue.

    The adjustment does not involve the creation of a new lot or a replat, in accordance
    with approval standard (3). The readjusted lots will both have access to Dopp Road, in
    accordance with standard (4).

    Section 402.09(B)(2) contains standards for lot line adjustments in the EF district.   The
    applicable standard is:

                                                                           ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                Exhibit "A"
                                                                                      Page 9
                                                                     ae DB ac l276
            Any parcels subject to an alteration in size through a lot-line adjustment shall be
            shown to be of a size at least as appropriate to maintain the existing commercial
            agricultural enterprise in the area as were the parcels prior to the adjustment.

     Currently, lot 2301 is 8.4 acres in size and lot 2400 is 1.8 acres. If the adjustment is
     approved, the lot sizes will be approximately 1 acre and 9 acres. None of the lot sizes          !
                                                                                                  |
     involved is large enough to affect the commercial agricultural enterprise in the area.

     Site Design Review Provisions
si

     Site design review is required for any new development in the PALF district. The
     applicant has submitted two different site plans. The first shows three 10-bay hangars
     to be constructed (over a 5 year time frame) on the eastern half of the 7-acre expansion
     area. The buildings are shown as being 48' by 240', and are separated by taxiways.
     The site plan shows the hangars will be located 3 feet from the northern property line.
     The second site plan is more generalized and shows two smaller hangars located along
     the northern property line near the center of the expansion area.

     Section 1101.02(A) states that the review of a site development plan shall be based
     upon consideration of the following:

     1,     Characteristics of adjoining and surrounding uses;

     2.     Economic factors relating to the proposed use;

     3.     Traffic safety, internal circulation and parking;

     4.     Provisions for adequate noise and/or visual buffering from noncompatible uses;

     3,     Retention of existing natural features on site;

     6.     Problems that may arise due to development within potential hazard areas.

     7.     Comments and/or recommendations of adjacent and vicinity property owners
            whose interests may be affected by the proposed use.

     The airport expansion would have the greatest effect on the two dwellings on lots 2300
     and the remainder of 2301 to the west, and lot 2200 to the north. Warming up and
     taxiing aircraft could result in increased noise impacts to these properties. The Board

                                                                           ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                Exhibit "A"
                                                                                       Page 10
                                                                            aus UO bev?
      finds that the conditions of approval setback requirements will be adequate to assure
      compliance with LDO section 7.020(1).

      Regarding problems that may arise due to development within potential hazard areas,
      the site plan showing three hangars on the eastern half of the property does not comply
      with FAA standards for safe distances between buildings and runways. As explained in
      Finding B.6, a building 10 feet in height must be located at least 195' from the
      centerline of the runway. The first site plan shows the hangars would be less than 100'
      from the runway centerline. The 7-acre expansion area is wide enough to accommodate
      the hangars on the northern half of the parcel, although it may require removing part or
      all of the orchard. A revised site plan showing a hangar location that complies with the
      FAA standards will need to be submitted, along with additional information on the
      height and other dimensions of the proposed hangars. A condition of approval will
      assure compliance with this requirement.

      Notice was sent to all property owners within 500 feet of the subject property. The
      Board considered all comments received.

      The proposal must also comply with the development standards of the PALF district,
      which requires 30 setbacks from all property lines. There is an exception for accessory
      buildings to be located 3 feet from the side or rear property line if they are less than 15
      feet in height, 60 feet from a road and 10 feet from any dwelling. No information has
      been provided concerning the proposed height of the hangars, but it would be feasible
      for them to meet the accessory building standards.A condition of approval will assure
      compliance with this requirement.

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

1,    The request is for a Plan amendment from Agriculture Forestry Large Holding to
      Public and a zone change from EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use district to PALF Public
      Airports/ Landing Fields district, including taking a "reasons" exception, a lot line
      adjustment to add 7.3 acres to Chehalem Airpark, and site design review for the
      construction of hangars.

      The applicant has submitted evidence that there is a need for additional hangar space in
      the county.

 3.    The hangars must be located on land with direct access to the airport runway. There is
       insufficient room to construct hangars on airport property that is already zoned PALF.
       There is no other adjacent exception land. The 7.3 acres is not currently in

                                                                              ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                       Page 11
                                                                            rin OG vce d278

       agricultural use, and because of its small size there will be less impact to the
       agricultural land base in the area than if other adjacent lands were rezoned.

4.     The request complies with the standards for a lot line adjustment in LDO Section
       7.020 and YCZO Subsection 402.09(B)(2).

5.     The site plan submitted with the application will need to be revised to show that the
       hangar location will not conflict with airport imaginary surfaces.

DECISION:

Based upon the above findings and conclusions, the Board approves the request by Dennis
Sturdevant for a Comprehensive Plan map amendment from "AFLH" (Agriculture Forestry
Large Holding) to "Public", a zone change from "EF-80" (Exclusive Farm Use) to "PALF"
(Public Airports/Landing Fields), and an Exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3 on a 7.3
acre portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301, and also a lot line adjustment to add the 7.3 acres from
Tax Lot 3309-2301 to Tax Lot 3309-2400 (Chehalem Airpark), and site design review to
construct aircraft hangars on the 7.3 acre portion of Tax Lot 3309-2301, subject to the
following conditions:

1.     The adjusted lots shall be surveyed pursuant to Section 6.120 of the Yamhill County
       Land Division Ordinance and a copy of the survey shall be submitted to the Planning
       Director prior to final approval.

2.     A copy of the instrument(s) conveying the adjusted property shall be submitted to the
       Planning Department prior to recording with the County Clerk. The names on the
       instrument(s) conveying the property shall be the same as they appear in the tax
       records of Yamhill County.

3.     The instruments conveying the adjusted properties shall either describe the readjusted
       lots in their entirety, or, if the instrument describes only that area being conveyed
       from one property to the adjoining property, the following statement shall be placed on
       the instrument:

               This conveyance is made solely as an adjustment of common boundary
               between adjoining properties, and does not create a separate parcel that
               can be conveyed independently of adjacent land.

4,     All building locations shall comply with FAA standards for minimum distances from
       the runway uless a letter is submitted from either the FAA or State Aeronautics
       Division affirming that the hangers may be located closer to the runway.   The

                                                                              ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"      ~
                                                                                          Page 12
                                                                         ru 66 neLe7g
        buildings shall be located at least 30 feet from all property lines unless they are less
        than 15 feet in height, in which case they may be located a minimum of 3 feet from the
        side or rear property line.

FAADMIN\PINKST|LU\PAZOL99F,
                         WPD

                                                                             ORDINANCE 670
                                                                                  Exhibit "A"
                                                                                      Page 13