Zoning Ordinance
Section 405.00 - Parks, Recreation, Open Space District (PRO)
[Last amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

405.01  Purpose
The purpose of the PRO District is to accommodate the immediate foreseeable demand
for public parks and recreation and open space in designated areas inside or outside urban
growth boundaries to serve local and regional residents’ needs as identified in the
Comprehensive Plan . The size, character and intensity of development of park, recreation
and open space areas and the performance characteristics of recreation areas shall be
commensurate with the capability of land and water areas to support the uses intended
and shall not result in any unusual service demands on nearby urban centers. Uses of land
and water not compatible with public parks, public recreation and open space uses,
including recreation commercial service facilities, shall be prohibited.

405.02  Permitted Uses
In the PRO district, the following uses shall be permitted subject to the standards and
limitations set forth in subsection 405.07 , and pursuant to Section 1101  for site design
review:

A.  Park, recreation area, or open space, publicly or privately owned, operated and
maintained and including hunting and fishing preserves;

B.  Public campground or picnic site;

C.  Historical, archaeological, or geological site;

D.  Public boat-launching and fishing facilities;

E.  Public bicycle and pedestrian paths or trails systems not within County or public
rights-or-way;

F.  Equestrian paths or trails systems;

G.  Public playlot, playground, or playfield, including game court, ball diamond,
swimming pool and similar uses;

H.  Public RV park subject to the RV park provisions of Section
1003 ;

I.  Golf course, excluding miniature golf;

J.  Driving range, in conjunction with a golf course;

K.  Dwelling for caretaker or watchman, in conjunction with a permitted use. Site
design review is not required for the dwelling; [Last amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

L.  Accessory uses;

M.  Temporary structures as may be required during construction of an authorized
permanent structure. Such temporary structure shall be removed upon final
inspection of the permanent structure by the Building Inspector;

N.  Operations conducted for the exploration of oil, natural gas or geothermal
resources, subject to the
Type A  application procedure set forth in Section 1301 ;

O.  Community or municipal water supply system;

P.  Community or municipal sanitary sewer system; and

Q.  Signs, pursuant to the sign provisions set forth in Section 1006 .

405.03  Conditional Uses
In the PRO District, pursuant to the Type B  application procedure set forth in Section
1301  and subject to the conditional use review criteria listed in Section 1202 , and subject
to Section 1101  for site design review and any other applicable criteria established by this
Ordinance, the following use may be allowed conditionally:
A.  Driving range, not in conjunction with a golf course.

405.04 Similar Uses
Any use not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use in this District that is
similar in character, scale and performance to the permitted uses specified in subsection
405.02, may be allowed as a similar use, subject to the similar use provisions of Section
1206  and pursuant to the Type A  application procedure set forth in Section 1301 .

405.05 Prohibited Uses
Uses of land and water not specifically mentioned in this Section and not allowed as a
similar use, are prohibited in the PRO District.

405.06 Nonconforming uses
Nonconforming uses found in the PRO District are subject to the nonconforming use
provision of Section 1205  as well as any other applicable provisions of this Ordinance.

405.07 Standards and Limitations
In the PRO District, the following standards and limitations shall apply unless varied or
waived subject to Section 903  for Planned Unit Development:
A.  Parcel Size and Dimension

The minimum parcel size for any use shall be one (1) acre, except that fifty (50)
acres shall be the minimum parcel size for a golf course.

B.  Setbacks

The minimum setback for all yards shall be thirty (30) feet for all uses, except as
follows:

1.  The minimum setback for signs shall be five (5) feet.

2.  An accessory structure not more than fifteen (15) feet in height, at least
sixty (60) feet from a road, and at lease ten (10) feet from any dwelling
may be located a minimum distance of three (3) feet from the property line
in a side yard or rear yard.

3.  A swimming pool may be located in a required rear yard, provided it lies a
minimum of five (5) feet from the rear property line.

4.  Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along
the edge of any yard, subject to the clear-vision area requirements of
subsection
405.07 (D) . [Last amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

C.  Access

Before a dwelling may be established on any parcel as provided in this section,
the parcel shall have a legal, safe and passable means of access by abutting at
least twenty (20) feet either directly upon a public road, or by a private easement
which is at lease thirty (30) feet in width for its entire length and which also abuts
upon a public road for at least thirty (30) feet. Nothing in this Section shall be
construed to vary or waive the requirements for creation of new access contained
in any
Land Division Ordinance  legally adopted by Yamhill County.

D.  Clear-Vision Areas

A clear-vision area shall be maintained on the corner of any parcel at the
intersection of any two of the following: County roads, public roads, private roads
serving four or more parcels, and railroads. A clear-vision area shall contain no
sight-obscuring structures or plantings exceeding thirty (30) inches in heights
within a triangle formed by the lot corners nearest the intersection, and the two
points twenty (20) feet from this corner as measured along the parcel lines
adjacent to the intersecting rights-or-way. Trees exceeding this height may be
located such that their branches extend into this triangle, provided they are
maintained to allow at least twelve (12) feet of visual clearance within the triangle
below the lowest hanging branches.

E.  Height

1.  The maximum building height for any dwelling shall be thirty-five (35)
feet;

2.  The maximum building height for all other structures shall be forty-five
(45) feet; and

3.  Appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
intended for human occupancy such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas.
water tanks, ventilators, chimneys, and wind generators are not subject to
the height limitations of this Ordinance.

F.  Occupancy of Recreational Vehicles

One (1) recreational vehicle shall be permitted to be parked on any parcel in
conjunction with a principal dwelling, and may be used for the temporary
accommodation of guests for a period of up to 30 days total in any year. In no
case shall such any recreational vehicle be used as a principal dwelling or rented
unless and until the necessary permits have been obtained. [Last amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

G.  Off-street Parking

Off-street parking and loading requirements for any use provided for in the PRO
District shall be as provided in Section
1007 .

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page