5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 1 of 7
Subject:
SB111 – Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigation Guidelines
Effective Date
03-23-09
Number
5.08
Notes:
Guidelines SB 111 (2007) Planning Authority
Review Date
03-23-09
No. Pages
7
Applies To:
 Jack Crabtree
Sheriff
Applied Standards:

Approved:

I. PURPOSE
This policy recognizes that the use of force by law
enforcement officers requires constant evaluation.
Even at its lowest level, the use of force is a serious
responsibility. The purpose of  this policy is to provide
Deputies of this Office with guidelines on reasonable
use of force.
II. POLICY
The use of force by law enf orcement personnel is a
matter of critical concern both to the public and the law
enforcement community. Deputies are involved on a
daily basis in numerous and varied human encounters
and, when warranted, may us e force in carrying out
their duties.
Deputies must have an understanding of, and
appreciation for, the limit ations on their authority;
particularly with respect to overcoming resistance from
those with whom they come in official contact.
This Office recognizes and respects the value of all
human life and dignity without prejudice to anyone. It is
also understood that vesting deputies with the
authority to use reasonable force and protect the
public welfare requires a careful balancing of all
human interests.
Therefore, it is the policy of this Office that Deputies
shall use only the amount of force which reasonably
appears necessary, given the facts and circumstances
perceived by the Deputy at the time of the event, to
effectively bring an incident under control (affect
arrest, overcome resistan ce, prevent escape, defend
self / others). “Reasonableness” of the force must be
judged from the perspective of a reasonable deputy on
the scene at the time of the incident, and without the
benefit of 20/20 hindsight.
III. DEFINITIONS
Administrative Investigator : Investigator assigned by
the employer agency to condu ct the civil investigation
of the incident.
Criminal Investigator(s): Those investigators assigned
by the venue agency(ies), the employer agency(ies),
or the District Attorney's O ffice to conduct the criminal
investigation of the incident.
Employer Agency: The agency by which the involved
law enforcement officer/public safety employee is
employed.  (In many cases the venue agency will also
be the employer agency.)
Injured/Deceased: A person who is injured or killed by
the actor(s).
Internal Investigator : Investigator assigned by the
employer agency to conduct the personnel
investigation of the incident.
Involved Officer(s):
a. A law enforcement officer who uses or attempts to
use deadly physical force on another person; and
b. A law enforcement officer whose act is a
"proximate cause" of a se rious physical injury or
death to another person; or
c. A person who intends that an act be a "proximate
cause" of serious bodily injury or death to another
person who is seriously injured or killed by
another.
d. A law enforcement officer whose official conduct
was not a cause in fact of the death of a person,
but whose official involvement in an incident in
which the use of deadly physical force by a police

5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 2 of 7
officer resulted in the death or serious physical
injury of a person.
Lead Investigator: The investigator assigned pursuant
to the Major Crime Response Team protocol to head
and direct the investigation.
MCRT: Yamhill County Major Crime Response Team.
Proximate Cause : A cause which, in a chronological
and continuous sequence, produces a serious or fatal
injury.
Serious Physical Injury : "Serious physical injury"
means physical injury which creates a substantial risk
of death or which causes serious and protracted
disfigurement, protracted impairment of health, or
protracted loss or impairment of the function of any
bodily organ.
Weapon: When the term “weapon” is used throughout
this investigative guideline, it generally refers to a
firearm.  However, it is understood that in some
situations instruments other than firearms may cause
death or serious physical injury.  This may include, but
is not limited to, vehicles, Tasers, batons or Asps, etc.
IX.  OBJECTIVES
A. The Criminal Investigation
The District Attorney has ultimate authority for the
prosecution of criminal cases, and specific shared
responsibility with the Me dical Examiner in death
investigations.
B. Investigative Team Composition and
Objective:
1. The criminal investigation has investigative
priority over an administrative or personnel
investigation and should begin immediately
after an incident has occurred.  The goal is to
develop all available relevant information
about the incident.  This information will be
used in two ways:
a) To determine the presence or absence of
criminal liability on the part of all those
involved in the inciden t.  Specifically, to
determine whether the conduct involved is
prohibited or authorized by criminal
statutes.
b) If criminal conduct does exist:
(1) Determine the identity of the person(s)
responsible for that conduct;
(2) Determine the degree of the crime(s);
(3) Determine the existence of any factual
or legal defense to the crime; and
(4) Determine the presence or absence of
any factors which would mitigate or
aggravate punishment for that crime.
2. To provide factual information to the employer
agency for its internal use.
3. The investigative team will be comprised of
criminal investigators in Yamhill County MCRT
and such other investigators as they may
deem appropriate.
X. PROCEDURES
A. Incident Scene Procedures:
1. The initial responding law enforcement officer
has several important duties to perform upon
arrival at the scene.  See X E on page 5 of this
policy, “Duties of Initial Responding Officer.”
2 The initial responding supervisor, or any
subsequent supervisor who assumes
responsibility of the sce ne, shall ensure that
the duties are completed.  See X F on page 6
of this policy, “Responding Supervisor
Checklist.”
3. The Lead Investigator, as set forth in the
MCRT protocol, is ultimately accountable to
ensure the following procedures are
completed: When the use of force by an officer
results in death or serious physical injury, the
following provisions apply:
4. Upon the arrival of additional officers sufficient
to manage the scene, each Involved Officer
shall be relieved of their duties and the duties
shall be reassigned to uninvolved personnel.
5. As authorized by the Lead Investigator, and at
the direction of the Involved Officer’s
supervisor, the Superv isor of the Involved
Officer shall, as soon as possible, assign an

5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 3 of 7
officer to act as a companion to the Involved
Officer.  The Assigned Officer shall be
reminded that any communication between
the Involved Officer and the Assigned Officer
is not deemed confidential.
6. If practical, obtain an initial statement from
Involved Officers covering only that
information necessary for public safety and
scene management.  This statement may
include, but need not be limited to, information
necessary for public safety necessary to
protect persons and property, possible
witnesses, participants, location of weapons or
other hazards, incident location(s), etc.  The
initial statement is intended to provide a
framework for the investigation and ensure the
preservation of evidence. The following
statements should preface any questions:
a. “I am going to ask you some questions
concerning public safety and scene
management."
b. "You are not required to answer my
questions."
7. As soon as practicable, each Involved Officer
shall leave the scene and be offered an
opportunity for a medical examination.  If the
officer is not in need of medical treatment, the
officer shall be taken to a private location.  The
Supervisor shall see that the officer’s union
representative is notified.  The Supervisor
shall inquire of the Involved Officer if he/she
wishes an attorney, family member, or another
person be notified of the incident.
8. As soon as practicable, the weapon(s) and
any ammunition of any officer who fired their
weapon or who was in the immediate vicinity
where weapons were fired, shall be seized by
investigators and replaced with a substitute
weapon, if appropriate.
9. As soon as practical, and after making every
effort to obtain alternative personal clothing,
the Involved Officer’s clothing of potential
evidentiary value shall be collected by
investigators.  Prior to the collection of the
Involved Officer’s duty weapon and clothing,
the Lead Investigator shall direct that
photographs of the Involved Officer be taken.
This should be done in a discrete way and in a
private setting.
10. The Lead Investigator shall see that the
Involved Officer is requested to provide blood
and urine as soon as possible.  This should be
done in a discreet way and in a private setting.
11.  The Lead Investigator shall direct the Involved
Officer’s Supervisor to direct the Involved
Officer to not discuss the incident with any
individual, including other Involved Officers, or
to review any media coverage of the incident.
Nothing about this direction should preclude
the Involved Officer from being able to engage
in privileged communications, such as
discussions with representing attorney, union
representatives, spouse, clergy or medical or
mental health professionals.
12. The scene(s) must be secured immediately
with a perimeter of sufficient distance to
safeguard evidence.  In some circumstances,
an inner and an outer perimeter may be
appropriate.
13. Access to the scene(s ), except as otherwise
provided by this agreement, shall be limited to
only those officials who must enter for criminal
investigative purpose.
14. A Crime Scene Log will be established as
quickly as possible to identify all persons
entering the scene(s), the time of their entry
and exit, and the reason for entry.
15. Except as necessary for scene investigation,
upon completion of medical and fire
suppression duties, medical and fire personnel
shall be excluded from the scene.
16. Unless exigent circumstances exist, no items
shall be moved inside the scene(s), or
removed from a scene, without approval of
the, Lead Investigator unless absolutely
necessary for public or officer safety or the
preservation of evidence.  If removal without
approval is necessary, the removal must be
logged.  The log shall state the identity of the
person removing the described object, the
reason for removal, and the time of removal.
The item should be photographed in its
original location, and if possible, diagrammed
prior to removal.
17. Involved Officers or participant witnesses shall
be separated as soon as practical after the

5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 4 of 7
incident and should refrain from discussing the
incident prior to interviews.
18. Physical evidence at the scene should be
video and still photographed, diagrammed,
recorded, protected, and collected per MCRT
protocol.
B. Interview of Involved Officer:
1. As used in this section “interview” refers to
formal interview of the Involved Officer by
assigned investigative personnel that occurs a
reasonable time after the incident and after the
officer has had an opportunity to consult with
counsel if so desired.
2. The interview of the Involved Officer(s) who
used deadly force resulting in death or serious
physical injury, shall occur after a reasonable
period of time to prepare for the interview and
taking into account the emotional and physical
state of the officer(s).  The interview shall
occur no sooner than 24 hours after the
incident, unless this waiting period is waived
by the officer or unless directed otherwise by
the District Attorney.
3. The waiting period does not include an initial
on-scene conversation with the officer as set
forth in Paragraph III, 2, C above.
4. Once it has been determined that no evidence
will be contaminated or destroyed, the
Involved Officer(s) will be provided an
opportunity for a “walk through” of the scene
with a representative of their choosing.
5. For at least 72 hours immediately following an
incident in which the use of deadly physical
force by a police officer resulted in death of a
person or serious physical injury, a law
enforcement agency may not return an
Involved Officer to duties that might place the
officer in a situation in which the officer has to
use deadly force.
6. Officer(s) involved in the use of deadly force
resulting in death or serious physical injury
shall immediately be placed on administrative
leave until such time as sufficient information
exists to determine the justification in the use
of deadly physical force and that the officer(s)
have had an opportunity to meet with a mental
health professional with an outcome that no
issues would preclude the officer(s) from
performing the duties of a police officer.
7. In the six months following a use of deadly
physical force incident that results in death,
the Agency shall offer each Involved Officer a
minimum of two opportunities to meet with a
mental health professional.  The officer shall
be required to attend at least one session with
a mental health professional.
8. At agency expense, the Involved Officer(s)
shall be scheduled for an appointment with a
mental health professional for a counseling
session with a follow-up session scheduled at
date determined by the mental health
professional.
9. The sessions are not to be considered fitness
for duty evaluations, and are to be considered
privileged between the officer and the mental
health professional.
C. District Attorney:
1. When an incident of the use of deadly physical
force by an officer, and resulting in the death
or serious physical injury, the agency shall as
soon as practicable, notify the District
Attorney, the Chief Deputy District Attorney, or
an assigned senior member of the District
Attorney’s Office.
2. When a use of deadly physical force by an
officer occurs, and death or serious physical
injury results, the Dist rict Attorney, and/or a
senior member of his staff will consult with the
agency regarding the investigation to ensure
that the investigation is done in accord with
the elements of this plan.
3. The District Attorney  has the sole statutory
and constitutional duty to make a decision on
whether to present a matter to a Grand Jury.
4. Preliminary Hearings will not be used as a
method of reviewing an officer’s use of deadly
force.
5. After a review of the information and evidence
developed from the investigation, and after
consulting with the investigating agency, the
District Attorney sha ll make the decision on
whether to present the case to a Grand Jury.

5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 5 of 7
6. If the District Attorney decides to present a
case to the Grand Jury, the District Attorney
shall promptly notify the Agency, the Involved
Officer(s), the Involved Officer’s representative
and, when appropriate, the public.
D. Reporting, Training and Outreach:
1. Public outreach and education shall include
the following:
a. A copy of this plan, and each agency’s
use of force policy, shall be posted on the
Agency’s website or available on the
Yamhill County website and readily
available to the public.
b. Citizen Academies, offered by any agency
subject to this agreement, shall include a
discussion on this plan and the agency’s
use of force policy.
c. The Yamhill County Sheriff’s Office shall
have personnel assigned to respond to
public inquiries about this plan and the
Sheriff’s Office use of force policy.
d. Each agency subject to this agreement
shall have a designated individual
responsible for responding to questions
about that agency’s use of force policy.
e. Once adopted, this plan shall be readily
available to the public and each agency
subject to this plan, shall provide copies of
the plan to members of the public or the
press upon request.
2. Each law enforcement agency within Yamhill
County shall provide a copy of this plan to
every officer, incorporate the plan into agency
policy documents and provide regular training
to officers on the implementation and contents
of the plan.
3. Upon the conclusion of an investigation into
the use of deadly force resulting in death or
serious physical injury, and following the
decision of the District Attorney as set forth in
Paragraph IV, 3, above, the Agency shall
complete the Attorney General’s report
regarding the use of force and submit the
report to the Attorney General.
4. The Department of Public Safety Standards
and Training requires 24 hours over a 3-year
period of training from either the “firearms” or
“use of force” subject areas. Each agency’s
annual training must include education on the
agency’s use of force policy, the MCRT
protocol, and this plan.  Each agency shall
have a written policy and system to monitor
that these standards are met.
E. Duties of the Initial Responding Officer
Pending the arrival of investigative staff at the
scene, certain tasks sh ould be undertaken by the
Initial Responding Officer.  The quality of evidence
collected or information obtained can be greatly
enhanced if law enforcement personnel take
prompt action rather than waiting for the arrival of
the investigative personnel.
Tasks which should be completed promptly, prior
to arrival of investigative personnel:
1. Emergency life-saving procedures take first
priority.
2. Take immediate steps to secure the scene,
while controlling access to preserve evidence.
3. As appropriate and consistent with agency
training, note the position and physical
condition (cocked, un-coc ked, bloody, etc) of
any weapons at the scene.  If possible,
preserve and/or leave in place any such
evidence.  If officer or public safety is a
concern, photograph the weapon in its place
and sketch the location and secure the
weapon.
4. Protect and collect evidence in danger of
being lost or destroyed, such as shoe
impressions/prints or firearms evidence.
Include the ambulance and emergency room
as possible locations of evidence.
Ambulances are routinely cleaned after each
use; therefore, immediate attention for
evidence collection will be necessary.
5. Record transient detail such as vehicles in the
area, lighting (natural or artificial), windows
and blinds or curtains (open/closed), doors
(locked or unlocked), weather, furniture moved
for emergency medical teams, etc.

5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 6 of 7
6. Initiate a Crime Scene Log of all persons
entering the scene(s), the time of their entry
and exit, and the reason for entry until
relieved, and document all persons present at
the scene through proper identification.
7. Make a preliminary sketch of the scene
without taking measurements.  If the scene or
a portion thereof is outdoors, start sketching
this area first to minimize inadvertent
alteration.
F. Responding Supervisor’s Checklist
1. Life saving efforts is first priority.
2. Identify and secure all scenes (original felony;
escape/chase route; fatal scene; collision
scene; suspect vehicle; employee's vehicle;
hospital; etc.)  Establish generous perimeters.
Prevent scene contamination.  Adjust
boundaries as necessary.  Protect and collect
physical evidence in imminent danger of being
altered or destroyed.
3. Prohibit entry into scene(s) except for
authorized personnel.
4. In the event of an officer’s use of deadly force
resulting in a death or serious physical injury,
a homicide or other qualifying incident,
activate the MCRT.  Ensu re that notifications
are made per agency procedures, and
immediately notify the District Attorney, the
Chief Deputy District Attorney or their
designate.
5. Request additional officers, as necessary.
6. As appropriate, assign an officer to ride in the
ambulance with any involved person, with
recorder if possible, for the purpose of:
a. Physical evidence protection, securing,
recovery;
b. Custody of arrestee;
c. Spontaneous and other unsolicited
statements;
e. Dying declarations;
e. Information to and from medical
personnel;
f. Identifying medical personnel.
7. Protect sensitive investigative information; use
caution on radio broadcasts. Use phone
whenever possible.
8.  If practical, obtain an initial statement from
Involved Officers covering only that
information necessary for public safety and
scene management.  This statement may
include, but need not be limited to, information
necessary for public safety necessary to
protect persons and property, possible
witnesses, participants, location of weapons or
other hazards, incident location(s), etc.  The
initial statement is intended to provide a
framework for the investigation and ensure the
preservation of evidence.
9. Disseminate information on outstanding
suspects, vehicles, witnesses, etc.
10. Collect perishable evidence.
11. Ensure Crime Scene Log has been started,
and is maintained, to record every entry and
exit.
12. In the event of an officer involved shooting, if
the shooting officer(s) has retained possession
of their weapon, leave in holster until such
time as it is collected at the direction of the
Lead Investigator.
13. Check all firearms of all Witness Officers and
seize as appropriate. Make notes on each.
14. Locate, identify, and separate civilian
witnesses.
15. Determine what Responding/Scene Officer(s)
have learned and what they have done.
16. The Supervisor shall see that the officer’s
union representative is notified.
G. Criminal Investigation Notification
1. You are advised that this investigation is
criminal in nature.

5.08 SB111 Officer Use of Deadly Force Investigative Guidelines 7 of 7
2. A refusal to answer questions from the
criminal investigations will not be a basis for
disciplinary action against you.  You have a
right to not participate in the interview, and the
right to terminate the interview, without
resulting discipline.
______________  ___________
Involved Employee Signature, Date/Time
_____________________________________
Signature of Officer Providing Notification

(see MCRT Protocol
)