BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                  FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Zone Change from VLDR-2.5 to VLDR-1_          )
Very Low Density Residential, Applicant Mike Bowlin,                        ) Ordinance 862
Tax Lot 4317-2600, Planning Docket Z-02-06, and                             )     ;
Declaring an Emergency                                                       )

          THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat
for the transaction of county business on February 10, 2011, Commissioners Leslie Lewis and Kathy
George being present, and Commissioner Mary P. Stern being excused.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Mike Bowlin applied for a zone change from VLDR-
2.5 to VLDR-1 Very Low Density Residential for a 10 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 4317-2600, and

           IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at a duly
noticed public hearing on July 6, 2006, then voted to approve the application. That decision has not
been appealed. The application should have been forwarded to the Board for approval in 2006 but this
failed to happen due to an administrative oversight. NOW, THEREFORE,

          IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as detailed
in Exhibit "A," the Findings for Approval, hereby incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference.
This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County,
and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective immediately. A map is appended as Exhibit
"RB,

          DONE this 10th day of February, 2011, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                  YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                 (Excused)

                                                                     MARY P. STERN

                                        &€ommissioner
                                                        Khe: LESLIE LEWIS
                      Poy Shamu     e        ;

APPROVED AS TO FORM:                       Reed, khors
   qn: Cire                              Commissioner ([         = KATHY GEORGE
Rick Sanai
County Counsel

                                                                         Bo.      -44
                                                                      Ordinance    862   ~   Bowlin
     Findings - Docket Z-02-06 (Mike Bowlin)
     Page 2

HEARING DATE:             July 6, 2006

DOCKET NO.:               Z-02-06

REQUEST:                  Zone change from VLDR-2.5 to VLDR-1 Very Low Density Residential.                The
                          purpose is to allow the property to be divided into five (5) rural residential home
                          sites.

APPLICANT:                Mike Bowlin

TAX LOT:                  4317-2600

LOCATION:                 14220 SE Foster Road, Dayton, Oregon

AREA SIZE:                10 acres

CRITERIA:                 Sections 502 and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance; the Yamhill
                          County Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies may be argued to apply.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL (Exhibit "A"):

A. Background Facts

1.        Access: Foster Road, County paved roadway outside the City of Dayton.

2.        On-site Land Use: The subject parcel is located on the south side of Foster Road, in Dayton’s
          Urban Growth Boundary (UGB). For the most part the property is wooded except for the small
          area in the center of the parcel that has been cleared. A residence was constructed on the parcel
          in the year 2000. The parcel is partially fenced for livestock. The eastern portion of the property
          is in the 100-year floodplain of an unnamed tributary of Yamhill River which runs from south
          to north across the subject parcel.

          Surrounding Land Use: The surrounding area is primarily rural residential in character, with lots
          of approximately 1.0 to 3.0 acres and averaging 2.5 acres in size. There are several subdivisions
          that have been created in the surrounding area. The subject parcel is across State Highway 18
          from the City of Dayton and it is the largest parcel in the center of small lots. The subject 10-acre
          parcel was a result of a previous subdivision to the west of the property. The subdivision was
          created with lot-size averaging provision, where smaller lots were created providing that the
          subject parcel remain undivided as long as the zoning remains 2,5 acres minimum. This is the
          reason the applicant is submitting this zone change application.

          Surrounding Zoning: All surrounding parcels are zoned VLDR-2.5, Very Low Density
          Residential use and all are in the City of Dayton UGB. All parcels in the area have the
                                                                            Ordinance   862   ~   Bowlin
                                                                                         Boil-749
     Findings - Docket Z-02-06 (Mike Bowlin)
     Page 3

          Comprehensive Plan designation of Very Low Density Residential.

5.        Water: The applicants indicated that the parcels are and will be served by drilled wells. The City
          of Dayton indicated that they will not provide city water to the site.

6.        Sewage Disposal: Septic systems are the only option in this area. The City of Dayton indicated
          that they will not provide city sewer to the site.

7,        Previous Actions: Previous eight lot subdivision was approved by Docket S-03-99 in September
          of 1999,

B. Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.        The Board finds that the request complies with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County
          Zoning Ordinance (YCZO) Section 1208.02. These provisions are as follows:

         A,      The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies and any other applicable
                 provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

         B.       There is an existing, demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the requested
                 zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy of the area,
                 the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location
                 of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

         Cc      The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the density
                 and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred in the
                 vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services
                 likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

         Dd.     Other lands in the County already designated for the proposed uses are either
                 unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size or other
                 Jactors.

          E.      The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR's) for
                 exceptions, if applicable.

2.        Regarding criterion (a), a zone change to VLDR-1 is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan
          designation of Very Low Density Residential (VLDR). Comprehensive Plan policy (a) of Goal
          LB.2 states:

                  Yamhill County will continue to recognize that the appropriate location of very low
                 density residential development is in designated large areas where commitments to such
                 uses have already been made through existing subdivision, partitioning, or development
                 and by virtue of close proximity to existing urban centers...

                                                                          Ordinance   862   -   Bowlin
Findings - Docket Z-02-06 (Mike Bowlin)
Page 4

     The subject area complies with this policy because it is part of a large exception area zoned for
     residential use located in the City of Dayton UGB in close proximity to City of Dayton. The area
     is committed to residential use and there are a number of subdivisions adjacent to the subject
     area.

     Regarding the need for additional residential lots in the area, the subject parcel is part of a rural
     residential area located in the UGB outside City of Dayton. This area has been in the UGB since
     its inception. Therefore it was not a part of the original Exception study. The following table
     shows the zoning designation, the total number of lots within the consideration area, and the
     number of lots that were developed and vacant as of June 1, 2000:

             Zone               # of lots       built lots       vacant lots         % of built-out
             AF-10                    27              23                 4                    85%
             VLDR-2.5                 70              59                11                    84%

             VLDR-1i                  4               4                  0                    100%
             Total                   101              86                15                    85%

    This analysis showed that 85% of the existing lots within the exception area are already
    developed and 100% of the lots that are zoned VLDR-1 are developed. The county has tried in
    the past to use market availability as a measure of need for the property to be rezoned. Ina
    similar land use request LUBA previously ruled:

               “The number of VLDR-2.5 zoned properties on the market for sale at any given point in
               time is at best an indirect measure of the need or market demand for such properties."
               (LUBA No, 91-200)

     Therefore, the county cannot use market availability alone as a basis for a determination of need.
     The Board finds that market availability is an important indictor, though not determinative.

     The 1990 Census reported the population of Yamhill County at 65,551, On July 1, 1999 the
     Center for Population Research and Census at Portland State University estimated the Yamhill
     County population at 83,100. This is an increase of 17,549 or 26.7% over a period of nine years.
     The overall county 2005 population estimate was 90,310 or approximately 9% more than six
     years ago. The increase in the rate and amount of development, combined with the relatively
     small number of existing vacant lots and an increasing population may indicate a demand and
     need for additional VLDR zoned lots in this area.

     A sheet of information from the RMLS of Yamhill County as of May 8, 2006 available in support
     of another similar application shows the number of available VLDR lots in the county. It is of
     note that there are only 10 available lots out of a total of 437 active listings for all properties,

                                                                       Ordinance   862   ~   Bowlin
Findings - Docket Z-02-06 (Mike Bowlin)
Page 5

     Additionally, staff reviewed Tax Assessor,       Planning and Building office records for parcels
     located in the Dayton area, which includes development in the UGB. The review indicated that
     total of 33 new lots were created between 1990 and 2000. At that time, all these lots were sold
     and all lots were developed. This would tend to indicate that there is a fairly substantial market
     demand for VLDR lots in the area, as well as illustrating that few lots are available for sale.

     If the zone change is approved, four (4) additional lots could be created.

     The subject area appears to be as well suited for residential development as the other available
     lots in the area. Issues related to suitability will be discussed further in Finding B.S.

     Regarding criterion (c), the proposed zone change is appropriate because the supply of VLDR-1
     parcels in the Dayton area has been exhausted. Further, the adjacent parcels are small residential
     lots similar in size to the proposed subdivision and the majority of these lots have already been
     developed with residences. There are no large scale commercial farm or forest uses in the
     vicinity that would be impacted by the residential lots that could be created if the zone change
     is approved.

    Changes which have occurred most recently in the vicinity, which support the request, include
    the approval, sale and development of 33 new lots. Most of these lots were created in two
    subdivisions along Foster Road and one subdivision south of Dayton. Usual services such as fire
    and police protection, schools, telephone and electricity are available to the site. Wells serve
     most of the subdivision lots. The County Sanitarian did not indicate whether the soils in the area
     are acceptable for a subsurface sewage disposal system, however, there are many parcels in the
     area with similar soils and on-site septic systems. In the event that water is not available or septic
     systems are not allowed the applicant would not receive subdivision approval. Foster Road is a
     County maintained roadway. An access roadway to the proposed lots will have to meet the
     County emergency vehicle standards.

     Criterion (d) requires a finding that other VLDR designated land is either unavailable or not as
     well suited for residential development. As indicated in Finding B.3, it is indicated that there are
     only 11 lots that have not been developed in the immediate vicinity that are zoned VLDR-2.5 and
     no VLDR-1 lots are available in Dayton area and only 10 lots for sale were available in the entire
     county. The availability of lots appears to be low, and market demand appears to be fairly high.
     However, as noted in Finding B.3, if all the lots in the subject area were to be subdivided to the
     maximum density, there would be only four (4) more lots zoned VLDR 2.5. The demand for
     these lots outpaces the availability. The subject area currently has an access on Foster Road
     which is a county road. Except for the question of water and septic, as discussed in Finding B.4,
     the subject parcel does not appear to be any less suitable for residential development than any of
     the other lots in the area.

     Regarding criterion (e), the subject area is in the UGB which was excepted as part of the UGB
     process, therefore, the area is not subject to Goals 3 and 4. The proposed lots are within the
     Dayton UGB, therefore, Goal 14 does not apply. No other Goals apply to this request, and no
     exception is required.
                                                                       Ordinance   862   ~   Bowlin
     Findings - Docket Z-02-06 (Mike Bowlin)
     Page6__

CONCLUSIONS:

1.        The request is for a zone change from VLDR-2.5 to VLDR-1 Very Low Density Residential for
          a 10-acre area.

2.        The request complies with the Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies and is consistent with the
          Plan map designation of VLDR.

3.        The majority of properties zoned VLDR-2.5 and all parcels zoned VLDR-1 in the area are already
          developed with residences, and there appears to be a market demand for new lots.

4,        There was no information at the time of this writing about whether water and sewage disposal
          would be available to serve the 5 additional lots that could be created if the zone change is
          approved. These concerns can be addressed when an application is made to subdivide the
          property.

5.        The area has substantially changed in the past ten years with the addition of new residential
          development. The location of this property, next to rural residential zoning, does not lend itself
          to small farm uses. Therefore, additional residential development is appropriate for this location.

DECISION:

Based on the above findings, analysis, and conclusions, the Board hereby approves the request by Mike
Bowlin for a zone change from VLDR-2.5 to VLDR-1 on Tax Lot 4317-2600.

                                                                          Ordinance   862   -   Bowlin
                                                                                        ©
                                                                                        6
                                                                                        ing]
                                      eT
                                           ;   "Wingnaaaage
                                                       ak orc wae eaten ngtinepsengdemtnyeae
                                                                                          get peg
                       sootisrot                 sang gid snp gtd rma
                                                                   Anan aSinhe PNP Me OT      pra
                                                                               tL
                                                                             00°0
* Exhibit B"

                          AREAL eed
                      oleae
               deyy Kuno jyyure x