“ee                                                                            ay 68 nce O26

               IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATSOFIOREGONT 55
                                  FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL
                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS
In the Matter of an Ordinance Relating to Planning
Dockets Z-01-98 and SU-01-98, Tax Lot 3230-100
applicant Baker Rock Crushing Company; Confirm-
ing the Validity of Ordinance 650; Determining after                     ‘ORDINANCE 674
Public Hearing on Remand from the Land Use Board
of Appeals that the Applicant had Satisfied Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan Policy V.A.1.b, LUBA No.
98-141; Declaring an Emergency.

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                   OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (“the Board”) sat
for the transaction of county business in formal session on November 4, 1999, commissioners
Robert Johnstone, Thomas E.E. Bunn and Ted Lopuszynski being present.

THE BOARD MAKES THE FOLLOWING FINDINGS:

A.         On August 4, 1998 the Board adopted Ordinance 650 to approve the application of Baker
Rock Crushing Company to site an Asphalt Batch Plant on Tax Lot 3230-100. County records
regarding Baker Rock’s application are memorialized in Planning Dockets Z-01-98 and SU-01-
98. In its operative part, Ordinance 650 provided as follows:

           “Section 1. The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended on the
           approximately 18 acre portion of the 20 acre tract known as Tax Lot 3230-100 as
           specified in the attached Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning designation of "HI".

           “Section 2. Aggregate processing and an asphalt batch plant is hereby determined to be
           similar to permitted uses in the “HI” (Heavy Industrial) district.

           “Section 3. The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference are
           hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

           “Section 4. A Limited Use Overlay is hereby applied to that portion of tax lot 3230-100
           that is rezoned to “HI” (Heavy Industrial).   Under the Limited Use Overlay, permitted
           uses shall be limited to those uses the applicant has described as being part of its
           proposal, which include the installation of an asphalt batch plant, the on-site processing
           and storage of finished products and materials necessary for the production of asphalt,
           and other uses incidental thereto. Under the Limited Use Overlay to be applied to the
           site, all other uses listed as allowed in the Heavy Industrial District under YCZO     § 703.02
           will only be allowed subject to established conditional use procedures. In addition, the
           approval of the Limited Use Overlay shall be subject to the following conditions:
                                                                                                  B.0.99- 2/¥
                                                                                       ORDINANCE 674
                                                                                                     Page 1
                                                                                   ris B8 vce O27

       ey
              An application for site design review shall be submitted and approved by the
              county prior to any change in the type or scale of uses occurring on the parcel. As
              part of the site design review, the developer may be required to complete off-site
              road improvements if the city and county Public Works Directors determine that
              the roads that will be used to transport materials to and from the site are
              inadequate to handle the truck traffic generated by the use.

       “
              All necessary DEQ permits shall be obtained for the asphalt batch plant.

       «3
               A floodplain development permit shall be obtained prior to any new development
               that will occur on portions of the parcel that are below 100 feet in elevation above
               sea level. Development includes grading, excavation, placement of fill material
               and structures.

       “A,    A Willamette River Greenway permit shall be obtained prior to any new
              development in the Greenway.

       “5,    Trucks used for transporting materials to and from the facility shall be required to
              use the existing truck route from the site via 14" Street, River Street, 11" Street,
              Wynooski Road, and Highway 219, to the extent the route remains as a designated
              truck route.

       “Section 5, This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
       citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
       upon passage.”

B.       The City of Newberg appealed Ordinance 650 to the Land Use Board of Appeals,
asserting the Board had committed a series of errors in approving Baker Rock’s application. The
case number assigned to the appeal by the Land Use Board of Appeals was LUBA No. 98-141.

C.   On July 29, 1999 the Land Use Board of Appeals issued a Final Opinion and Order in
LUBA No. 98-141. LUBA rejected all assignments of error raised by the City of Newberg in its
appeal of Ordinance 650 except for one. The assignment of error sustained by LUBA was the
City’s contention that the County erred in failing to consider Yamhill County Comprehensive
Plan Policy V.A.1.b which provided as follows:

       “Yamhill County will, in making land use decisions relative to industrial or other
       uses likely to pose a threat to air quality, consider proximity of the proposed uses
       to residential areas and meteorological factors such as seasonal prevailing wind
       direction and velocity.”

D.      Because LUBA sustained the single assignment of error, it remanded the County’s land
use decision in Ordinance 650 back to Yamhill County. LUBA No. 98-141 was not appealed to
the Oregon Court of Appeals and therefore became the final appellate decision on the matter.

                                                                                   ORDINANCE 674 |
                                                                                            Page 2
                                                                                    rx B8 mace O28

 E.      On October 28, 1999 the Board held a pubic hearing in Room 32 of the county
 courthouse to consider the LUBA remand of Ordinance 650. Public Notice of the hearing had
 provided that the only evidence or testimony which would be accepted must relate to Yamhill
 County Comprehensive Plan Policy V.A.1.b. After the chair had opened the public hearing, the
 City of Newberg requested the Board to expand the scope of the public hearing in order for the
 City to address issues in addition to Plan Policy V.A.1.b. After considering the City’s request,
 the Board determined that the hearing should proceed as noticed, and that the Board would only
 accept evidence and testimony relevant to Plan Policy V.A.1.b.

 F,      After consideration of preliminary matters described in paragraph (E), the Board
 proceeded with the public hearing to consider the LUBA remand of Ordinance 650. Proponents
 and opponents introduced evidence and testimony related to air quality and meteorological
 conditions in order for the Board to consider the affect of Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan
 Policy V.A.1.b.

 G.      At the conclusion the public hearing on October 28, 1999 the chair announced the record
 of the hearing was closed to the receipt of additional evidence.   The Board then deliberated the
 issue and determined that the applicants had satisfied Plan Policy V.A.1.b, and that the decision
 made by Ordinance 650 should be confirmed.         The matter was continued until November 4, 1999
 for staff to prepare findings in support of the Board’s tentative decision of October 28, 1999.
 NOW, THEREFORE,

 THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                          ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

 Section 1.        Confirmation of Ordinance 650.

         The land use decision made by Ordinance 650, August 4, 1998 is hereby confirmed.

 Section 2.        Compliance with Plan Policy V.A. Lb.

         In accordance with the Final Opinion and Order in LUBA No. 98-141, July 29, 1999, the
         Board has considered whether Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Policy V.A.1.b
         precludes the Board from approving Baker Rock Crushing Company’s application
         through the Board’s adoption of Ordinance 650. The Board specifically finds that Baker
         Rock Crushing Company has satisfied YCCP V.A.1.b, and that Ordinance 650 should be
         confirmed.

 Section 3.        Findings in Support.

         In support of this Ordinance, the Board adopts the Findings attached and incorporated as
         Exhibit “A.”

 Ml

Hl

                                                                                    ORDINANCE 674
                                                                                                   Page 3
                                                                                 ux O8 vce O29
Section 4.     Emergency clause.

        This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of
        Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
        immediately.

AYES:          Commissioners Johnstone, Bunn and Lopuszynski.

NAYS:          None.

DONE    at McMinnville, Oregon on November 4, 1999.

ATTEST                                 YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

CHARLES STERN                                “Vedat nbd                   Mane
County Clerk                           Chairman               ROBERT JOHNSTONE

                        WHITE      — Commissioner             THOMAS E. E. BUNN

JOHN
   M. GRAY, J Re \                     Commissioner      (_/ TED LQPUSZYNSKI
Yamhill ERA Cou

                                                                                   whitec\plan\bakreord.wpd

                                                                                   ORDINANCE 674
                                                                                            Page 4
                                                                                         run 68 ee 030

                                            EXHIBIT “A”
                                           ORDINANCE 674

                                   FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
                                         ON REMAND
                               ZONE MAP CHANGE APPLICATION
                              BAKER ROCK CRUSHING COMPANY
                                      DOCKET NO. Z-01-98

A.      Type of Application:
         The applicant, Baker Rock Crushing Company, is seeking a zone map change for most of its
property, tax lot 3230-100. The property is currently zoned “Mineral Resource-2” (MR-2), and the
applicant has requested that the property be zoned “Heavy Industrial” (HI). The applicant intends to
place an asphalt batch plant on the upper terrace of the property, following site design review. To that
end, the applicant has also requested from the County a determination that an asphalt batch plant is a
heavy industrial use, similar to other uses allowed in the HI zone.
         To accommodate expansion of Roger’s Landing Marine Park, the applicant has arranged to
make available to Yamhill County approximately one acre of the riverfront portion of its property
adjacent to the park. The southeast corner of tax lot 3230-100 would retain its current zoning, because
parks are conditionally allowed in the MR district, but not in the HI district. The area that would
remain in MR-2 zoning extends +350 feet west from the eastern boundary of tax lot 3230-100.
        On August 4, 1998, the Board of Commissioners (Board) approved the application.         By
Ordinance 650, the County rezoned tax lot 3230-100 from MR-2 to HI, determined that asphalt
batching is a similar use to uses listed as allowed in the HI zone, and applied a Limited Use Overlay to
the property, to limit allowed uses to those proposed by the applicant.
         The City of Newberg (City) was originally part of this application, and had tentatively agreed
to allow installation of the batch plant on tax lot 3229-2700, which the City owns and which is adjacent
to the applicant’s parcel. Ultimately, the City opposed the application to develop either its parcel or the
applicant’s parcel. Subsequent to the County’s approval of the application, the City appealed to the
Land Use Board of Appeals (LUBA) and the County’s decision was remanded.
         This document represents the County’s additional findings supporting its decision to approve
the application, in response to the Final Opinion and Order issued by LUBA on July 29, 1999, in
LUBA No. 98-141 (LUBA Opinion). The record of the original proceedings on this application is
included by this reference in the record of this proceeding on remand. The original findings of fact in
this matter are hereby incorporated by reference in these findings, as if set out fully here. Reference
should be made to the original findings for background information and findings regarding the County’s
decision that are not repeated or discussed below.
B.      Summary of LUBA’s Decision, LUBA No. 98-141
        LUBA summarized the facts leading to its decision as follows:
            “The subject property is a 20-acre parcel located between 14" Street on the
            north and the Willamette River on the south, within the city’s urban growth
            boundary (UGB) but outside the city limits. The property is bordered on the
            west by River Road with scattered rural residences further to the west. On the
            east, the property is bordered by two city-owned vacant parcels formerly used
            for landfill and sewage treatment purposes and a marine park called Roger’s

                                                                            EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                   Page 1
                                                                                                  FILH    68      PACE      O31

          Landing. Adjacent to Roger’s Landing and the city-owned parcels to the east
          is the Smurfit pulp and paper mill on 145 acres of land zoned HI. To the north
          of 14" Street lay vacant property zoned for agricultural and forestry uses, and
          further north, a railroad line and residential uses that are within the city limits.
          “The subject property is topographically marked by a steep escarpment that
          separates the lower portion of the property near the river within the river’s
          flood plain from an upper bench. The lower portion of the property is located
          within the Willamette River Greenway. Intervenor has operated an aggregate
          processing and storage facility on the property for 25 years that has involved
          shipping aggregate to the site by barge, washing and crushing the rock, and
          then transporting the aggregate on trucks via 14" Street to its ultimate
          destination.’ At the height of intervenor’s aggregate operation in 1993,
          intervenor’s operation produced 283,000 tons of aggregate and generated an
          average of 22 trucks per hour using the 14" Street truck route.
               “The subject property is designated ‘industrial’ under both the city and
               county comprehensive plans. In 1979, the city and county entered into
               an Urban Area Growth Management Agreement (UAGMA) that
               requires, in relevant part, that zone changes outside city limits but
               within the UGB ‘shall be processed by Yamhill County and shall be
               forwarded to the City Council for its recommendation.” UAGMA
               VII(3)(a). Where the city’s recommendation is required, the VAGMA
               provides that ‘the City and County need not agree upon a decision.’
               UAGMA II(5)(b). The UAGMA does not specify what standards are
               applied in processing a zone change or other applications within the
               UGB, but does provide that:                                                ;
                ‘The 1979 Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map adopted by the City of
               Newberg on July 2, 1979, shall be the plan map for the area within
               the [UGB], and shall replace conflicting portions of the Yamhill
               County Comprehensive Plan Map (1974) pertinent to this area.
               Where said maps conflict, Yamhill County shall initiate the process
               necessary for consideration of a map amendment.’ UAGMA
               IiI(1).’Ctalics added)
          “Pursuant to UAGMA II(D, the county adopted Ordinance 214, which
          provides in relevant part:
                ‘The [commissioners have] reviewed the City’s Comprehensive Plan,
               a copy of which is attached and by this reference is made a part
               hereof, and hereby adopts the City Plan Map designations for that
               area of Yamhill County which is within the City’s UGB and is outside
               of the corporate limits of the City. The Planning Director is hereby
               authorized and directed to amend the Yamhill County Comprehensive
               Plan [YCCP] Map accordingly.
                dn amending the [YCCP], where the [YCCP] does not have a
               designation which corresponds to the City Plan Map designation, the
               Director my designate such property as “Future Urbanizable Lands.”

! The Board notes that prior to the applicant’s acquisition of the site, it was operated by Macaulay Rock Products.

                                                                                      EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                                         Page 2
                                                                                           FILA   68   PACE   032

                (Italics added)
            “Tn February 1998, intervenor and the city jointly applied to the county for
            (1) a zone change from MR-2 to HI, (2) a similar use determination, and (3)
            a Willamette River Greenway Permit for an area including the subject
            property and one of the adjacent city-owned lots. The purpose of the
            application was to allow intervenor to operate a permanent asphalt batch
            plant on the city lot. A permanent asphalt batch plant is prohibited in the
            MR-2 zone, but is allowed, subject to a similar use determination, in the HI
            zone. At some point thereafter, intervenor dropped plans to locate the plant
            on the city-owned lot, and instead proposed locating it on the lower portion
            of the subject property. As proposed, the asphalt batch plant would produce
            approximately 50,000 tons of asphalt per year, and generate five truck trips
            during the peak hour.
            “Pursuant to UAGMA VII(3)(a), the application was forwarded to the city
            for its recommendation. The city council adopted a resolution that
            recommended denial of the requested zone change, similar use
            determination and Willamette River Greenway permit. Intervenor then
            withdrew its request for a Willamette River Greenway Permit, and modified
            its application to propose placing the asphalt batch plant on the upper bench
            of its property, outside the Willamette River Greenway, The commissioners
            conducted an evidentiary hearing on June 11, 1998, at which the city
            testified in opposition. On July 2, 1998, the commissioners closed the
            record, deliberated and voted to approve the zone change and similar use
            determination.   The commissioners reopened the record on August 4, 1998,
            to receive testimony rebutting certain alleged ex parte communications, and
            on that date issued its written decision approving the requested zone change
            and similar use determination.”    LUBA decision, p. 2-5.
         In its appeal to LUBA, the City made four assignments of error. LUBA identified nine
additional subassignments of error, and determined that one of those subassignments was
meritorious.
       The subassignment of error that was sustained by LUBA concerned Yamhill County
Comprehensive Plan Policy V.A.1.b., which reads:
            “Yamhill County will, in making land use decisions relative to industrial or
            other uses likely to pose a threat to air quality, consider proximity of the
            proposed use to residential areas and meteorological factors such as
            seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity.”
         In the original proceedings, the Board failed to adopt findings addressing this policy,
because no party argued that it might apply. Before LUBA, for the first time in these proceedings,
the City argued “that the proposed asphalt batch plant will impact air quality, particularly with
respect to nearby residential uses, and that the challenged decision must be remanded to address
YCCP V.A.1.b.” (LUBA Opinion, p. 10)
        In response, the County argued that:
             “YCCP V.A.Lb. is not applicable, because it is applicable only when a
            land use decision is likely to pose a threat to air quality.” The county made
            findings with respect to other criteria that the applicant must obtain all
            necessary Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) permits and satisfy

                                                                            EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                   Page 3
                                                                                   un 68 nce 033
            all applicable DEQ regulatory requirements, and that ‘the very low levels of
            emissions’ from the proposed plant do not pose human health risks, Record
            23. To the extent complaints about emissions go to odor rather than health
            risks, the county argues that such complaints do not constitute evidence of a
            ‘threat to air quality’ within the meaning of YCCP V.A.1.b. We understand
            the county to argue that the Board should interpret YCCP V.A.1.b. as being
            limited to the kind of air quality concerns addressed by DEQ, and that the
            above findings and their supporting evidence ‘clearly supports’ a finding
            either that YCCP V.A.1.b. is inapplicable or that the proposed asphalt batch
            plant is consistent with that provision.” (LUBA Opinion, p.11)
        On this point, LUBA held as follows:
            “We decline to interpret YCCP V.A.1.b. as the county suggests. It is not at
            all clear that YCCP V.A.1.b. is ditected or limited to the types of emissions
            that DEQ regulates. To the extent the county relies on ORS 197.835(11)(b),
            findings that the plant’s ernissions do not pose human health risks do not
            ‘clearly support’ a finding of compliance with YCCP V.A.1.b.”
         It is also notable, for the purposes of the remand proceeding, that LUBA identified no other
errors or oversights in the County’s decision. In that regard, the County has already determined, as
required by YCZO 1208.02(C), that:
            “The proposed [zone] change is appropriate considering the surrounding
            land uses, and the density and pattern of development in the area * * *”

        In determining that the applicant had met this requirement, LUBA stated:
            “The city faults the county’s finding regarding odor, noise, and dust
            impacts. The city argues that the evidence the county relied upon indicates
            that asphait plants can be operated in proximity with residential
            development without causing noise and dust problems, but, according to the
            city, nothing in the record discusses the impacts of odor from asphalt plants.
            “Intervenor responds by citing to evidence in the record that neighbors of
            the proposed asphalt plant in its former location had never complained
            regarding odor, noise, or other emissions. We agree with intervenor that the
            cited evidence constitutes substantial evidence supporting the county’s
            findings regarding adverse impacts from odor, noise, and dust.” LUBA
            Opinion, p. 18.

Cc:     County’s Interpretation of Plan Policy V.A.1.b.
         1       The first step in addressing Plan Policy V.A.1.b. is for the Board to determine what
it means. In this regard, Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance (YCZO) Section 1208.02 A, requires an
applicant for a zone change to demonstrate that:
            “The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies and any other
            applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan.”
LUBA’s opinion directs the Board to determine the extent to which plan policy V.A.1.b. is
applicable to the applicant’ s proposal, what the policy means, and specifically, whether the Board
intends through the policy to regulate air quality beyond the level of regulation that would be
imposed by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) under the Clean Air Act and
state laws implementing the Act. LUBA did not fault any findings made by the Board, and did not
interpret plan policy V.A.1.b. LUBA remanded the decision to allow the Board to articulate the

                                                                           EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                  Page 4
                                                                                             rin 68 vce O34

meaning of the policy and to adopt appropriate findings addressing it. The County adopted Plan
Policy V.A.1.b., is entitled to interpret its meaning, and is entitled to deference for its interpretation.
         2.       The Meaning of the Express Language of Plan Policy V.A.1.b.
          24       “Likely to pose a threat to air quality.” By its terms, Plan Policy V.A.1.b. is
relevant when Yamhill County is making a land use decision relative to industrial or other uses
“Tikely to pose a threat to air quality.” The Board interprets this phrase to relate to industrial and
other uses likely to pose more than an incidental threat to air quality, and specifically to the types of
air quality impacts regulated by DEQ, and the degree to which DEQ regulates those impacts. A
facility is not “likely to pose a threat to air quality” if the applicant demonstrates that the facility will
likely be able to obtain a DEQ air quality permit and be operated in conformance with the permit.
The Board reserves judgment regarding whether the policy would be implicated in the case of a
proposed facility requiring a “Title V” major source Air Contaminant Discharge Permit from DEQ.
The Board nevertheless concludes, for all of the reasons stated herein, that the policy is not
implicated by a proposal to construct a facility that is likely to be subject to a “minimal” or “regular”
Air Contaminant Discharge Permit, and appears capable of obtaining such a permit.
          2.2     The Board does not intend, through Plan Policy V.A.1.b., to independently regulate
air pollutants or air quality impacts, or to impose restrictions under policy V.A.1.b. in addition to
restrictions imposed by DEQ. As stated numerous times in the original findings for approval, the
County relies on DEQ, its regulations and expertise, to ensure that air quality impacts of proposed
development are adequately considered and mitigated. Based on testimony and evidence in the
original record of these proceedings, the County concluded, and continues to conclude, that it is
reasonable to expect that the applicant can meet all state and federal environmental regulations
applicable to the proposed use. The facility is currently located at Farmington, Oregon, and operates
under a regular Air Contaminant Discharge Permit issued by DEQ. A condition of approval requires
the applicant to obtain all necessary DEQ permits, and if DEQ will not issue a permit, the facility
cannot be operated on the subject property. To the extent any goal or policy of Yamhill County
requires consideration of air quality impacts, the Board finds that compliance with those policies,
including plan policy V.A.1.b., can be met through imposition of the condition.
         2.3     The Board does not intend, through policy V.A.1.b., to regulate air quality impacts
of proposed facilities, or to require applicants to consider “threats to air quality” that are incidental,
are not regulated by, or are not of concern to DEQ. The Board intends for this policy to be directed
and limited to the types of emissions that DEQ regulates and the degree of regulation imposed by
DEQ, and for DEQ to continue to have sole authority to monitor and regulate air quality impacts.
        2.4     Meaning of “consider.”” Webster’s Third New International Dictionary
(unabridged, 1993) defines “consider” to mean:
              “1; to reflect on : think about with a degree of care or caution * * * 2;
              REFLECT, DELIBERATE, PONDER * * * CONSIDER often indicates
              little more than think about. It may occasionally suggest somewhat more
              conscious direction of thought, somewhat greater depth and scope, and
              somewhat greater purposefulness.” (no emphasis added)
         2.4.1   The Board accepts this definition of the term. Since the Board is only required by
the policy to “consider” the potential impact of a proposal, an applicant can be required by the
policy only to ensure that the Board did in fact “think about” those impacts. There is no reasonable
reading of the policy that would lead to a conclusion that the applicant must prove that such impacts
do not exceed a certain level. Policy V.A.1.b. is satisfied if the record demonstrates that the Board
(after determining that the proposed use is “likely to pose a threat to air quality”) “thought about”

                                                                                EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                       Page 5
                                                                                              ris 88 vce O35

“proximity of the proposed use to residential areas and meteorological factors such as seasonal
prevailing wind direction and velocity.”
        2.4.2    The Board also notes that it has also “thought about” the potential impacts of the
proposed facility on the surrounding area under YCZO section 1208.02(C), which requires the
County to find that:
                “The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
                uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which
                may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and
                the availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the
                anticipated uses in the proposed district.”
As stated, LUBA has already determined that, in the original proceedings, the applicant
demonstrated compliance with this standard, and County findings addressing the standard are
adequate, As part of its analysis of the evidence relied upon by the County, LUBA concluded that
the record contains “substantial evidence supporting the county’s findings regarding adverse impacts
from odor, noise, and dust.” LUBA Opinion, p. 18. The Board has therefore already considered
the appropriateness of the use in relation to surrounding land uses, including residential uses, and
has concluded that the zone change is appropriate in terms of the limited impacts likely to occur due
to odor, noise and dust from the proposed facility.
        2.5    Meaning of phrase “proximity of the proposed use to residential areas and
meteorological factors such as seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity.”
         2.5.1    The express language of Plan Policy V.A.1.b. requires that the Board, under
specified circumstances, consider “proximity of the proposed use to residential areas and
meteorological factors such as seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity.” The text and
context of the provision leads the Board to conclude that it directs the Board to consider
meteorological factors that may tend to aggravate or mitigate the impact of a proposed facility on
nearby residential areas. Thus, the Board is not required to consider all meteorological phenomena
that might be in play in the area of the proposed development, but only those meteorological factors
likely to create, exacerbate, or mitigate impacts on nearby residential areas.
        2.5.2     | Webster’s Third New International Dictionary, (Unabridged,   1993) defines
“meteorological” to mean, “relating to meteorology.” Webster’s defines “meteorology” to mean, “1
a:ascience that deals with the atmosphere and its phenomena (as variations of heat, moisture, or
winds)—compare CLIMATOLOGY b : a science that deals with weather and weather forecasting 2
: the atmospheric phenomena and weather of a region.” Webster’s defines “weather” to mean “1:
state of the atmosphere at a definite time and place with respect to heat or cold, wetness or dryness,
calm and storm, clearness or cloudiness ; meteorological condition.”

         2.5.3   The County finds that the only meteorological factors that are relevant to this
discussion are the ones raised by-participants in the original and remand proceedings: “seasonal
prevailing wind and velocity, ” and temperature inversions. The Board has received no evidence
suggesting that any other weather phenomena are relevant to this decision, or would tend to create,
exacerbate, or mitigate to any significant degree the impact of the facility on nearby residential
areas. The Board concludes that meteorological factors other than temperature inversions and
seasonal prevailing wind and direction are not significant in assessing the possible impacts of the
proposed facility, and accepts as true and adequate the information regarding temperature inversions
and seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity submitted by the applicant.
       3.      The purpose and underlying policy of Plan Policy V.A.1.b. In the Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan, the “Introduction to 1979 Amendments (Ord. 206)” states:

                                                                             EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                      Page 6
                                                                                      FILR    68    PACE     036

             “Implementation of the County goals and policies can occur several ways.
            Many are implemented through county ordinance. Other goals and policies
            will apply to individual issues or proposals put forth by both private and
            public sectors. Still others will require action dependent upon the County’s
            fiscal resources through time.
             When certain goals and policies conflict with others, the final decision will
             require a weighing of the merits in order to achieve a balanced decision.
             Through time, the goals and policies are guides for consistent, reasonable
             and balanced land use decisions.”
         3.1     As described above, the Board interprets Plan Policy V.A.1.b. to relate to industrial
and other uses likely to pose more than an incidental threat to air quality. The policy is not
implicated if the applicant demonstrates. that the facility will be subject to a “minimal” or “regular”
Air Contaminant Discharge Permit, and is likely to receive and to be operated in conformance with
the permit. When implicated, the policy requires the Board to consider wind direction, velocity, and
other relevant meteorological phenomena, and whether these phenomena are likely to cause,
exacerbate, or mitigate air quality impacts to nearby residential areas.
         3.2,   The policy itself is located in Section V. of the plan, entitled “Environmental
Quality.” Subsection A. is entitled “Air, Water and Land Resources Quality.” The “Goal
Statement” under Section V.A. is:
             “1,   To conserve and to protect natural resources, including air, water, soil
             and vegetation and wildlife, from pollution or deterioration which would
             dangerously alter the ecological balance, be detrimental to human health,
             or compromise the beauty and tranquility of the natural environment.”
          3.3      The Goal stated in Section V.A. is clearly aspirational, and not an approval criteria.
It states an ideal that serves as a basic consideration for the County when developing the
implementing regulations in its zoning ordinance. To further understand the context and purpose of
policy V.A.1.b, all of the policies under Goal Statement V.A.1. are listed here:
             “a, Yamhill County will cooperate with the State Department of
             Environmental Quality in enforcing state and federal regulations designed
             to achieve a high air quality.
            b, Yamhill County will, in making land use decisions relative to industrial
            or other uses likely to pose a threat to air quality, consider proximity of the
            proposed use to residential areas and meteorological factors such as
            seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity.
             c. Yamhill County will cooperate with the State Department of
             Environmental Quality in implementing noise control regulations,
            d. Consideration will be given to adopting an ordinance requiring
            environmental impact review of all major public and private development
            proposals and the social and economic costs and benefits associated with
            any particular development proposal will be properly evaluated prior to
            public endorsement or approval.
             e. In order to maintain and improve the quality of the county’s air, water
             and land resources, Yamhill County will seek to minimize irreversible and
             other long-term impacts in its development of energy resources; support
             efforts, where feasible, for the appropriate and efficient recovery of energy

                                                                             EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                           Page 7
                                                                                       FILK   b8     PACE   037
               as a means to reduce waste problems, and encourage a program to recover
               and recycle used motor oil.”
         3.4      The context of policy V.A.1.b. supports the Board’s conclusion that it is
aspirational, and not an approval criteria, Goal V.1. and its related policies describe the County’s
interest in considering the environmental impact of its decisions, and addressing conflicts between
proposed development and environmental amenities. If the goal and its policies were not
aspirational, but were instead taken at face value as approval criteria, no development could be
approved, because all development proposals impact the natural environment. Considering the
language of the policy, the comprehensive plan introduction, the aspirational purpose of Section V.
of the plan in general, as well as the specific purpose of policy V.A.1.b., the Board concludes that
the policy is not an approval criteria, and is satisfied if the record demonstrates that the Board
considered the extent to which meteorological factors, such as seasonal prevailing wind direction
and velocity, cause, exacerbate, or mitigate the impact on nearby residential areas of a facility that is
likely to pose.a threat to air quality.
         3.5      When interpreting policy V.A.1.b., the Board finds that there is no significant
difference between the “purpose” of the policy, or its “underlying policy,” and that for the purpose
of this discussion the two are one and the same.
        3.6       The Board’s consideration of the purpose and underlying policy of policy V.A.1.b.
does not alter its conclusion that the policy does not require the applicant to address air quality
impacts other than to comply with a condition of approval that the applicant obtain all necessary
permits required by DEQ.                                                    :
         3.7     It is also important to note the Board’s responsibility, when interpreting its
comprehensive plan policies, to weigh, or balance, potentially conflicting policies. As stated, the
introduction to the 1979 amendments to the plan requires such balancing in order to resolve
conflicts between provisions, and to provide consistent decision making over time.
          In this regard, the Board notes the extensive findings made in Ordinance 650 interpreting
and addressing other Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Policies. For instance, Comprehensive
Planning Goal 1.H.1 and Policies 1.H.1., 1.H.1.b., and other policies under Goal 1.H.1, promote the
goal of locating industrial uses within urban growth boundaries, in areas that are plan designated for
industrial uses. Goal 1.H.1. encourages the County to “protect the stability and functional aspect of
industrial areas by protecting them from incompatible uses.” Policy 1.H.1.a. also urges the County
to protect industrial areas “from encroachment of other urban uses.” In weighing the relative
importance of Policy V.A.1.b. against these other goals and policies, the Board finds that industrial
facilities capable of complying with applicable state and federal environmental regulations should
be located, whenever possible, within urban growth boundaries, (UGB) and within plan-designated
industrial areas. In this instance, the Board declines to interpret Policy V.A.1.b. in a manner that
would foreclose an industrial use from locating within a UGB in a plan-designated industrial area.
         4,      Whether the county’s interpretation of plan policy V.A.1.b. is contrary to a
state statute, land use goal or rule that the comprehensive plan provision or land use
regulation implements.
         4.1       Section V. of the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan is entitled, “Environmental
Quality.” Subsection “A” is entitled “Air, Water and Land Resources Quality.” Notes in the
Introduction to the Plan indicate that, while the plan has been updated to meet the requirements of
the Statewide Land Use Planning Goals, the original Comprehensive Plan predated the adoption of
those goals. A notation in the plan text indicates that Plan Policy V.A.1-b. pre-dated adoption of the
Statewide Goals, Because Plan Policy, V.A. has the identical title to Statewide Land Use Planning

                                                                             EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                    Page 8
                                                                                         cin BS sce        038

Goal 6, the Board concludes that Plan Policy V.A. is intended to carry out Goal 6, which reads:

             “To maintain and improve the quality of the air, water and land resources
             of the state.
             All waste and process discharges from future development, when combined
             with such discharges from existing developments shall not threaten to
             violate, or violate applicable state or federal environmental quality
             statutes, rules and standards.    With respect to the air, water and land
             resources of the applicable air sheds and river basins described or included
             in state environmental quality statutes, rules, standards and implementation
             plans, such discharges shall not:
             1. exceed the carrying capacity of such resources, considering long range
             needs;
             2.   degrade such resources; or

             3. threaten the availability of such resources.
             Waste and Process Discharges—refers to solid waste, thermal, noise,
             atmospheric or water pollutants, contaminants, or products therefrom.
             Included here also are indirect sources of air pollution which result in
             emissions of air contaminants for which the state has established
             standards.”
         4.2      Plan policy V.A.1.b. has been acknowledged by the Land Conservation and
Development Commission as being in compliance with the Statewide Land Use Planning Goals,
including Goal 6. Goal 6 itself is therefore not directly applicable in these proceedings. However,
Goal 6 supports the Board’s interpretation of Plan Policy V.A.1.b. First, LUBA has established that
“Goal 6 does not require a local government to demonstrate that its decision will not cause any
adverse environmental impact on individual properties." Salem Golf Club v. City of Salem, 28 Or
LUBA 561, 583 (1995). Second, Goal 6 is oriented to the kinds of discharges regulated by state and
federal agencies, and states that those discharges “shall not threaten to violate, or violate applicable
state or federal environmental quality statues, rules and standards.” The Board’s interpretation of
policy V.A.1.b., that it is limited in scope to the types of emissions that DEQ regulates, is
completely in syne with Goal 6.
D.      Additional Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law
         1.      The remand hearing was strictly limited to the acceptance of evidence and argument
regarding the applicability of YCCP V.A.1.b, and whether the applicant has demonstrated
compliance with the policy. The Board also finds that evidence in the original record, and findings
adopted to address other plan policies and standards in the County’s zoning code, support the
Board’s determination in this proceeding that Plan Policy V.A.1.b. has been met.
         2.      In the original findings adopted by the Board in this matter, the Board found that the
facility would be capable of complying with DEQ regulations governing air quality, and attached a
condition requiring that the applicant obtain all necessary DEQ permits. To fully address policy
V.A.1.b., consistent with the above interpretations, the Board adopts the following findings.
        3.        Air Quality Information Submitted by the Applicant
         3.1      The applicant submitted information in this proceeding regarding the DEQ permit
process for its proposed facility. The applicant described three basic types of air contaminant
discharge permits that are issued by DEQ: “minimal,” “regular,” and “Title V.” Facilities that will

                                                                              EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                     Page 9
                                                                                       ris 08 vce O39

emit major quantities of pollutants (like the Smurfit Mill) operate under a Title V “major source”
Air Contaminant Discharge Permit (ACDP). Very small facilities may under certain circumstances
obtain a “minimal” permit, if the facility will emit less than five tons of particulates per year, and.
less than ten tons per year of any gaseous substance. All other facilities, including facilities of the
type proposed for the subject parcel, are subject to a “regular” ACDP. The applicant has established
that it intends to move an existing facility from a location on Farmington Road, and that the existing
facility operates under a regular ACDP. Odor is a pollutant that is currently regulated by DEQ, and
DEQ requires that the applicant control odor emissions at the Farmington Road facility.
        3.2     The applicant stated that air quality impacts (including odor) from its proposed
facility would be minimal, and would at no time reach levels that would be considered a significant
health risk or nuisance, or would upset the quiet enjoyment of nearby residences. To support this
position, the applicant submitted letters from six neighbors of the proposed facility at its current
location on Farmington Road, and a map showing the location of the residences in relation to the
facility. As stated, the applicant is proposing to move the Farmington Road facility to Tax Lot
3230-100. The letters are summarized as follows:
                  3.2.1    A letter from John and Luann Court, dated October 5, 1999, states that they
        have been neighbors of Baker Rock for over 15 years, and have never experienced a
        problem with Baker Rock. The letter also states: “We have never detected any offensive
        odors being emitted from the Asphalt Plant.” The Courts are located east-southeast of the
        facility at its current location.
                  3.2.2    A letter from Eshraghi Nursery, dated October 14, 1999, The letter states,
        in relevant part: “We have been on this location since 1990. * * * [have never experienced
        any type of odor coming from the asphalt plant which is located directly behind both our
        growing area and retail store.” The Kshraghi Nursery is located to the southwest of the
        facility at its current location.
                3.2.3.   A letter from Ron and Lucille Wold, dated October 15, 1999.       The letter
        states, in relevant part, “We have lived as neighbors of Baker Rock Co. on its eastern side
        for 12 years. In that time we have not been aware of any condition that bothered us. There
        has been no odor of offensive emissions from an asphalt plant established there, we are not
        even aware of when that was done. Occasionally we will notice a plume of white steam so
        we know only by that that it is in operation.”
                3.2.4    A letter from Tualatin Hills Park & Recreation District,    Jenkins Estate
        Center Supervisor, dated September 28, 1999, which states, in relevant part, “For many
        years we have been neighbors with Baker Rock and have a positive relationship with them.
        Never have we had a complaint from a client or staff regarding any odor from the Baker
        Rock Facility.” The Jenkins Estate is located northeast of the facility at its current location.
                  3.2.5    A letter from Cooper Mountain Kennel, dated October 1, 1999, which
        states, in relevant part: “There has never been an odor from the Baker plant * * *” The
        Cooper Mountain Kennel is located due north of the facility at its current location.
                 3.2.6   A letter from Victor Pinkerton, dated October 17, 1999, which states that he
        has been a neighbor on Baker Rock’s southern boundary for 19 years. The letter also states
        that “no problem exists” with the asphalt plant, and that “Odor, which may occur 2 times a
        year in the early morning calm, is nothing more than you would experience driving by a
        road being paved and for about the same length of time. It is not objectional or even worth
        considering for that matter.”

                                                                            EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                        Page 10
                                                                                           FILE   08        PAGE   040
         3.3      Letters from neighbors of the facility at its current location support the applicant’ s
claim that its facility will not generate excessive odors, and is not likely to create nuisance air
quality conditions for surrounding uses at its proposed location. (Notably, the letters also support
information submitted by the applicant regarding temperature inversions and wind direction and
velocity in the Willamette Valley. Of the letters submitted, the only person to ever smell asphalt
smelled it in an “early morning calm,” no more than twice per year, along the southern boundary of
the property.)
          3.4      The Board recognizes that most industrial uses have nuisance characteristics or pose
health risks, but specifically finds that the nuisance characteristics and health risks of the proposed
facility are not significant, and are not likely to have a significant impact on nearby residences. The
letters also describe the applicant as a conscientious neighbor, responsive to community needs. This
aspect of the letters supports the applicant’s claim that the proposed facility will be well run,
minimizing the risk of incidents which may cause episodes of unacceptable air quality. The Board
finds that this evidence, in conjunction with other evidence and testimony received in the original
hearings and remand hearing, supports a conclusion that the proposed facility is unlikely to pose a
threat to air quality, or to create health risks or nuisance conditions for residential areas in proximity
to the proposed use or elsewhere.
         3.5     The applicant has also stated that production from the plant will vary from hour to
hour, day to day, and season to season. The applicant has stated that most paving occurs during the
summer, and that although the plant will operate year round, the bulk of production will occur
during the period of June, July, August and September, when weather is most conducive to
construction projects. The Board received no information disputing the applicant’s testimony in this
regard.
        4.       Air Quality Information Submitted by Opponents
         4.1      The City of Newberg participated in the remand proceeding through City Planner
Barton Brierley, who submitted evidence related to air quality, including a web page from the
Government of Newfoundland and Labrador, and a web page from the Tennessee Department of
Environment and Conservation. The Newfoundland web page states that asphalt plants have the
potential to emit considerable quantities of dust into the atmosphere, and to have other problems
related to the spillage of petroleum products and waste disposal, necessitating “a standardized set of
procedures to ensure adequate controls are in place at all sites and that pollution control equipment
is being correctly used and maintained.” The Tennessee web page states that, in Tennessee, an
asphalt plant is an “air contaminant source” that requires a construction permit from the Tennessee
Division of Air Pollution Control. Neither of these web pages constitutes substantial evidence of
potential air quality impacts that have not been considered by the Board in the original proceedings
or in these remand proceedings. The applicant will be subject to the jurisdiction of DEQ, and has
already stated its intent and ability to obtain a “regular” Air Contaminant Discharge Permit from
DEQ.
         42,     The City also submitted a letter to the Board dated October 27, 1999, which states
that “The air quality threats of the asphalt plant are documented in many places in the record,
including pages 180, 260, 263, 265, 266, 278, 283, 284, 286, 287, and 288.” The documents
referred to by the City are summarized as follows:

                  4.2.1    Record, p. 180—Letter from Mrs. Pauline Ogden, dated 6/8/98. Ms. Ogden
        states in her letter that asphalt smells when it is spread on roads, and that: “I can’t fathom
        that there would be no fumes from the plant that is making it and loading those trucks with
        the hot tarry stuff and driving it through the neighborhood.”

                                                                              EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                        Page 11
                                                                                 FILK   68       PAE   041
In her letter, Mrs. Ogden cites no evidence to support a claim that the plant will emit odors.
She only states that she believes that it will. The applicant noted in response that when she
is referring to “hot tarry stuff” being driven through the neighborhoods, she may be
confusing asphalt trucks with torch-down roofers, who transport odorous loads of roofing
tar. Torch-down roofing is, according to the applicant, virtually unregulated, and emits
smoke and strong odors while it is being transported and applied. As for concerns that the
proposed facility will emit a level of odor commensurate with the level emitted by the laying
of asphalt pavement, the applicant testified that, according to information at EPA’s web site,
the largest source of emissions from asphalt is the road surface itself, during application.
Contrary to the City’s assertion, there is nothing in Mrs, Ogden’s letter “documenting” a
threat to air quality from the proposed facility.

        4.2.2    Record, p. 260—Letter from Lisa Jenkins, Duck Pond Cellars.       Ms. Jenkins
states in her letter that wineries need protection from asphalt batch plants. She provides no
evidence of this, nor does she provide any information regarding how emissions from the
proposed facility would ever reach her winery, or any other winery. The data on wind
velocity and direction in the record does not support a theory that the proposed facility will
harm the grapes at Duck Pond Cellars, which is not in close proximity to the plant. This
letter also does not document a threat to air quality from the proposed facility.

         4.2.3   Record, p. 263—This is a newspaper article about a facility in Bend, not run
by the applicant, which says nothing about air quality, and is totally irrelevant to this
proceeding.

        4.2.4    Record, p. 265—This is an editorial by Keith Hay, which also says nothing
about potential air quality impacts from the facility, and is also totally irrelevant.

        4.2.5   Record, p. 266—This is a letter to the editor of the Newberg Graphic from
Kelly Highley, criticizing DEQ. There is no evidence in this letter relating to asphalt plants,
much less evidence documenting that an asphalt plant represents a “threat to air quality.”

        4.2.6    Record, p. 278—This is the same letter from Keith Hay, mentioned above,
which does not discuss air quality impacts from the facility, and does not document that an
asphalt plant represents a “threat to air quality,” as claimed by the City’s letter.

         4.2.7   Record, p. 283—Letter from Kelly Highley, undated. This letter contains
no documentation regarding threats to air quality or asphalt plants. Its only references to air
pollution are the following: “Then there is the noise and air pollution,” and “And let’s not
forget about the smell.”

        4.2.8   Record, p. 284—Letter from Nancy Lesser, stating: “Rains & wind always
develop from the SW—so all the noxious fumes would come my way & then into Newberg
proper.” This information is refuted by the City’s own data on “average winds” and is also
not information documenting that an asphalt plant represents a “threat to air quality.”

          4.2.9   Record, p. 286—Letter from Anna L, Beach. Referring to the Smurfit Mill,
she stated that she sees a “trace of some substance on her car on clear days, and Pm sure we
don’t need any more fall outs, from the Asphalt plants.” There is no evidence in this letter
that there would be any “fallout” from the asphalt plant, which would employ a bag house to

                                                                   EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                             Page 12
                                                                                               FILE   68    bape      042

          contain emissions, and would not be a “major source” of air contaminants, like the Smurfit
          Mill.

                   4.2.10 Record, p. 287—Letter from Steve Wozniak. This letter states that
          “prevalent winds” are toward Newberg, and that “weather inversions would put emissions at
          ground level.” This letter is a comment on the prevailing winds and meteorological
          conditions, but contains no evidence or “documentation” that an asphalt plant represents a
          “threat to air quality.”           ;

                  4.2.11 P.288—Letter from Linda Mealue. This letter says, without any
          documentation, that an asphalt batch plant would be unhealthy. It also states that the plant
          would pollute the air, “Especially on our many inversion days.” Again, there is no
          documentation in this letter of a “threat to air quality,” as claimed by the City.

           4.3     The City’s letter points to every instance in the record where opponents either used
_ the word “inversion” or offered unsubstantiated fears regarding environmental degradation from the
  plant. The letters themselves don’t tend to prove anything except how certain people feel about the
  proposal, and do not, separately or in combination, constitute substantial evidence of a “threat to air
  quality” posed by the proposed facility.

          44       Mrs. Pauline Ogden testified at the hearing. She described potential air quality
 impacts from the proposed facility, and stated that she talked to Kevin McGillivray at DEQ, who
 Stated that an asphalt plant produces hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds, and semi-organic
 compounds, and that all of these substances pose health risks. She stated that fugitive emissions will
 also be released from the facility, and provided other air quality information. The Board notes that,
 in response, the applicant stated that its facility will be fully permitted by DEQ, and will be operated
 in full conformance with its DEQ permit.        The applicant stated that, the better the operator, the less
 likely there will be fugitive emissions due to mismanagement. The letters from neighbors of the
 plant at its existing location suggest that the applicant is a good neighbor and a conscientious
 member of the community in which the facility is currently located. The applicant also read into the
 record a portion of an Oregonian article, which states, in relevant part:

              “State environmental officials side with Huddleston’s assertions that asphalt
              plants are generally clean and nonpolluting.
                  “Steve Crane, an engineer with the stated Department of Environmental
                  Quality, monitors asphalt operations. Of the 51 operations he has inspected
                  this year, not one was out of compliance with strict state regulations.
                  “*There’s always a little black smoke that goes up when they fire up the
                  boilers,’ he says, ‘But most of them I’ve seen are pretty doggone clean.’”
 The Board notes Mrs. Ogden’s concerns, but finds that the applicant is capable of operating the
 proposed facility in accordance with state environmental laws. The Board has attached a condition
 requiring that the applicant obtain all DEQ permits necessary for operation of the facility, and has
 concluded that the applicant is capable of operating the facility in conformance with law.
          4.5     Pat Haight testified at the remand hearing, essentially, that if there is any air
 pollution that would be generated by the facility, the County should deny the application. The
 Board declines to interpret Plan Policy V.A.1.b. in the manner proposed by Ms. Haight. Ms. Haight
 also stated her belief that the trucks transporting asphalt from the site will emit odors, from asphalt
 and from diesel exhaust. The Board notes Ms. Haight’s concerns, but also notes that the County

                                                                                  EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                            Page 13
                                                                                            EL   ie   Pare   043

does not regulate diesel or other vehicle exhaust—that is DEQ’s responsibility. The Board also
notes that the trucks will be traveling on a designated truck route. The applicant has stated that
trucks transporting asphalt are not a significant source of asphalt odors, and Ms. Haight did not
provide any evidence, other than her personal belief, disputing the applicant’s claims.
         4.6      Virginia Jungwirth testified at the remand hearing, with regard to air quality, that
she and her husband smelled air pollution at their home near the proposed site, and later determined
that the Smurfit plant was burning tires. The Board notes these concerns, but finds that they are not
directly relevant to the applicant’s proposal, or to the findings required by plan policy V.A.1.b.
         4.7    Chris Lauringer testified that, as a petroleum derivative, asphalt is carcinogenic.
The Board notes Ms. Lauringer’s concerns, but repeats that air emissions from the facility will be
regulated by DEQ, and declines to impose a “no impact” standard with regard to air quality impacts,
under policy V.A.1.b.
        5.            Meteorological Information Submitted by the Applicant
          5.1     The applicant submitted a letter from a meteorological consultant, Dr. Fred W.
Decker, describing the seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity in the vicinity of its proposed
facility. Dr. Decker also submitted information documenting his expertise in the areas of
meteorology, climatology, physics, astronomy and education, and the Board accepts that Dr. Decker
is an expert in the field of meteorology.
        5.2           Dr. Decker’s letter states, in relevant part:
              “You have asked that I provide data and analysis regarding meteorological
              factors such as seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity at a site
              south of       Newberg, OR, along the Willamette River.   The site has been
              identified to me as Tax Lot 3230-100 and is a 20 acre parcel. I understand
              that the proposal is to place an asphalt batch plant on the northern end of the
              property along 14" Street near Waterfront Street.
              “Pertinent wind speed and direction data are included in the following data
              sets:

              “Summer and winter wind roses for Newberg, Feb. ’95 through Sept. ’96.
              “Daily weather summary data for Newberg for the year ending 30 Sept.
              1999.
              “Tabulated wind rose data for the most recent year at Aurora, OR, and at
              Salem, OR.

              “Long-term wind roses for Portland and Salem airport stations.
              “T have examined the foregoing wind data sets and considered them in the
              context of relevant seasonal weather patterns dominating the Willamette
              Valley. This examination led to the following summary statement of
              conclusions as to the seasonal prevailing winds at the Newberg site
              identified above for the asphalt batch plant.
              “During winter (Jan., Feb., Mar.) the prevailing wind blows from south at
              an estimated average speed of 8 mph. The speed at night (8 pm to 8 am)
              decreases on the average. The most frequent calm occurs in January about
              35% of the time at night. The least frequent calm occurs during days (8 am
              to 8 pm) in February only 7% of the time.

                                                                                EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                      Page 14
                                                                                          FILE   68   PACE   044

              “In spring (Apr., May, June) the prevailing wind blows from the west-
              southwest at estimated average speed of 7 mph. Calm occurs most often in
              April at night (31%) and least often in May during days (14%).
              “Th summer (July, Aug., Sept.) the prevailing wind blows from north at an
              estimated average speed of 5 mph. Calm occurs most often at night in
              September (54%) and least often in September days (25%).
              “Tn fall (Oct., Nov., Dec.) the prevailing wind blows from south at estimated
              average speed of 6 mph. Calm occurs most often in October at night (30%)
              and least often in November during days (10%).
              “The foregoing prevailing winds result from the dominance of storms
              approaching from the west beginning in October and continuing into spring
              interspersed with fair weather patterns increasing in May and June. In
              summer the dominant fair weather pattern prevails with weaker average
              wind speeds but with dominant daytime vertical convection currents rising
              from the warmer surface regions. This continues into October on the
              average until arrival of the fall storms. Each approaching storm from the
              west has south winds ahead of it for a longer time that the westerlies behind
              it, and this results in the prevalence of the south wind. The major fair
              weather pattern has a “ridge” of high pressure offshore to the west and
              north winds over the land. When this persists in summer or occurs at any
              time, northerly winds blow in the Willamette Valley.”
        5.3       The meteorological information submitted by the applicant establishes that during
the times of highest plant output, (June, July, August and September) prevailing winds blow away
from nearby residential areas. In June, winds are toward the Smurfit mill, at an estimated average
speed of seven mph. In July, August, and September, prevailing winds are toward agricultural areas
in Marion County, at an estimated average speed of five mph. Such winds would tend to mitigate or
prevent potential air quality impacts from the proposed facility on residential areas in proximity to
the site. Prevailing winds from the west-southwest during April, May and June would also tend to
direct any emissions from the plant toward the Smurfit Mill, and also appear likely to mitigate
potential air pollution impacts from the proposed facility. At other times of the year, prevailing
winds are from the south, at 6-8 mph. The Board has not conducted pollutant transport modeling
studies to fully assess the impacts of such winds on nearby residential areas, but does not interpret
policy V.A.1.b. as requiring either the County or the applicant to conduct such studies. As stated,
DEQ is responsible for regulating air quality impacts, and the County does not intend to regulate
such impacts through policy V.A.1.B.
          5.4     The Board finds that prevailing wind data submitted by the applicant is credible,
reliable, and sufficient for the purposes of allowing the County to consider “seasonal prevailing
wind direction and velocity” under policy V.A.1.b.
        6.        Meteorological Information Submitted by Opponents
         6.1     The City of Newberg’s letter dated October 27, 1999, also contained information
regarding prevailing wind direction and velocity. The letter states:
              “The City of Newberg has conducted wind pattern studies at its Waste
              Water Treatment Plant. This plant is within a mile of the subject property,
              and wind patterns there are similar to those at the subject property. These
              wind pattern studies show that prevailing wind patterns are from the north,
              northeast, south, and southwest (See Attachment C), Average wind speed is

                                                                             EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                      Page 15
    ay                            |                                                             six D8 vcr O45

                     about 3 miles per hour. These wind patterns are also documented on page
                     284 and 287 of the record. These low average wind speeds tend to cause
                     pollutants to drift in the air rather than being dispersed.”
         Exhibit C to the letter contains two wind roses, one exhibiting data on winds during May through
         October, and the other during November through April. The wind roses are not self-explanatory.
         Neither diagram indicates the period in which data was collected, or whether data from more than
         one season was collected. Mr. Brierley testified on behalf of the City regarding the data, but did not
         provide a detailed explanation in addition to his letter. His letter concluded that “Prevailing wind
         patterns would slowly carry pollutants from the site to nearby residential areas to the north and
         northeast.”             :
                  6.2      The applicant’s attorney rebutted Mr. Brierley’s testimony. Todd Sadio stated that
         the data cited in the City of Newberg’s letter appeared to have been gathered and tabulated or
         analyzed without the assistance of a meteorologist. The applicant’s consulting meteorologist used
         data from the sewage treatment plant in his analysis, but indicated to the applicant’s attorney that the
         data from the sewage treatment plant was not adequate, standing alone, to establish prevailing
         winds, According to the applicant’s attorney, a wastewater treatment facility official told the
         applicant’s consulting meteorologist that the anemometer at the sewage treatment plant is too close
         to a roof line, and the readings must be adjusted upward to account for wind blockage. It is not clear
         whether the readings provided in the City’s letter and exhibits have been adjusted to account for the
         location of the anemometer.   The station is also not a certified meteorological station, so it is unclear
         whether it provides accurate readings. The applicant’s attorney also noted that the wind roses
         attached to Mr. Brierley’s letter appear to show winds predominantly from north to south in the
         period May through October, which would mitigate any air pollution impacts on residential areas in
         Newberg during the period in which most production will occur at the facility.
                  6.3     The Board considered all information on prevailing wind direction and velocity that
         was provided or referenced during the hearing process, and finds that information regarding
         prevailing wind direction and velocity that was submitted by the applicant is more accurate and
         complete than the information submitted by the City of Newberg. To the extent there are conflicts
         between data submitted’and analysis conducted by the City and by the applicant, the Board resolves
         such conflicts by relying on data submitted, and analysis conducted, by the applicant’s
         meteorologist.
                  6.4      The City’s letter also provided information for the Board to consider regarding the
         incidence of temperature inversions in the Newberg area. To document the incidence of temperature
         inversions as a meteorological factor relevant for the Board to consider under Plan Policy V.A.1.b.,
         the City’s letter cited a statement in the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, 1974, page 26, as
         follows:
                     ‘While Yamhill County and the Willamette Valley may generally claim an
                     equable and salubrious climate, the Valley is virtually enclosed by
                     mountains and is poorly ventilated during periods of prolonged temperature
                     inversions, giving rise to acute air pollution conditions, particularly in late
                     summer and fall.”
         The City’s letter also stated that additional documentation regarding inversions can be found at
         pages 179 and 288 of the record. Page 179 is a letter from Linda D. Mealue, received on June 9,
         1998. It states, in relevant part:
                      “A consideration to be looked at is Newberg’s many inversion days & often
(                     a week or more affecting all of Newberg’s 17,000 people. Many of these

                                                                                      EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                            Page 16
                                                                                           FILE    68      PARE   046
            people are elderly, children & infants, think of their health. If this plant
            were to the north of Newberg perhaps it would not harm so many people.”
            (emphasis in original)
Page 288 of the original record is also from Linda Mealue.      It states, in relevant part, and without
documentation:
            “This plant would be unhealthy for people with sinus, allergy, skin and
            respiratory problems, It is also a very likely source of cancer, * * * this
            plant would be polluting to our river & air (Especially on our many
            inversion days)!”
         6.5     In response to the information submitted by the City of Newberg, the applicant’s
attorney stated that he read the statement from the 1974 County Comprehensive Plan to Dr. Decker,
the applicant’s consulting meteorologist, and that Dr. Decker stated that he did not know of
“prolonged” inversions in either Newberg or the Willamette Valley generally. Dr. Decker stated
that temperature inversions usually occur at night, in winter, and not usually in the summer. All-day
inversions are most likely to occur only in the winter. Dr. Decker also stated that such inversions
usually disappear in the morning, because the ground heats the cooler air near the ground and it
rises, mixing with the already warmer air above.                              ;
         6.6      The applicant’ s attorney also indicated that he had received an e-mail message from
Dr. Decker on the morning of the hearing, documenting that most true inversions occur during the
winter, at night, and that they are least likely to occur in March through October. Quoting from Dr.
Decker’s e-mail, Mr. Sadlo, an attorney for the applicant, stated:

            “Stagnation and trapping of emissions in surface air occurs with an
            inversion in which the surface and the air next to it is actually cooler than *
            the air aloft. This inverts the ordinary situation with wind movement and
            the air temperature progressively cooler at higher levels.
            ae ok ok

            “The stagnation occurs mostly in the late fall and early winter, March and
            October being the transition months of decreasing occurrence and
            increasing occurrence, respectively.
                                                     ok OK OR

                  “Whereas the winter occasions of inversion can last through periods of
                  more than one full day, the inversions that develop during the night in
                  late spring, summer, and early fall get destroyed by the solar heating of
                  the surface so that they survive only briefly after dawn.
                 “An activity which releases heat to the air causes that air to rise
                 buoyantly in convection currents going upward into the air above the
                 inversion. Thus, a heat-releasing process like the batch asphalt plant
                 actually propels air around it upward when the wind is calm at the
                 surface. The pattern of air movement then resembles the smoke
                 movement from a fire, the visible smoke rising some distance before
                 getting carried laterally to the upper air currents. This beneficial
                 convection upward occurs in all inversions but the very deepest and most
                 extreme, those having the greatest temperature difference between
                 surface chill and upper air warmth.”
           6.7         Considering the information regarding temperature inversions presented by all

                                                                              EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                    Page 17
                                                                                       un 68 ce O87
parties to the original and remand hearings, the Board concludes that such inversions do occur,
and when occurring, may exacerbate air pollution impacts of the proposed facility. The fact that
such inversions are most likely to occur at night, in winter, decreases the potential impact from
this meteorological phenomenon, considering that the proposed facility is not likely to be
operated at night, and will operate at higher capacity during the drier summer months, when the
incidence of the phenomenon decreases. The fact that the facility will produce heat also tends to
mitigate the impact of a temperature inversion on operation of the facility, by causing pollutants
to rise above the inversion.
        7.       Description of nearby residential areas
         7A      The Board made findings in the original proceedings on this matter that
described residential uses in the area of the proposed use. The Board hereby finds that those
findings are adequate to meet the requirement of Policy V.A.1.b that the Board “consider the
proximity of the proposed use to residential areas,” and that no further findings in that regard are
necessary.
         72      Exhibit “A” to Ordinance 650, page 3, paragraphs 3 and 4, describe residential
uses in proximity to the proposed use. Finding C.1.2.4.1 (Ord, 650, Exhibit A, page 9) also
describes the location of residences in relation to the site. No additional substantial evidence or
information was received by the Board in the remand hearing that detracts in any significant way
from the conclusions made in the original findings regarding the location and proximity of
residential uses in relation to the proposed facility.
        73      At the remand hearing, the City of Newberg submitted additional information for
the Board to consider regarding residential areas in proximity to the proposed use. The City
submitted a map (Attachment B to Barton Brierley letter dated October 27, 1999), showing
homes and residential areas in proximity to the proposed use. In its consideration of proximately
located residential areas, the Board notes that the information provided by the City supplements,
and does not conflict with, information considered in the original proceedings.
         8.      Conclusions regarding impacts from the proposed facility on nearby
residential areas that are caused, exacerbated, or mitigated by meteorological conditions,
including seasonal prevailing wind direction and velocity
         8.1      In the original proceedings on this matter, the Board found that “air discharges
(from the facility) will fully comply with all state and federal requirements and will not
constitute a threat to the environment.”   Findings, Ord. 650 Exhibit A, p. 11.   Based on testimony
and evidence submitted in the original proceedings on this matter and at the remand hearing, the
Board finds that the proposed facility is not “likely to pose a threat to air quality.” However, the
applicant has also submitted sufficient information to allow the County to fully consider issues
that the Board would need to consider if it determined that the facility is likely to pose a threat to
air quality, and the Board has fully considered those issues.
          8.2     Combining information in the record regarding nearby residential uses, air
quality information relevant to the proposed facility, and information regarding seasonal
prevailing wind direction and velocity and other relevant meteorological phenomenon, the Board
finds that nearby residences may, on occasion, smell asphalt. Conflicting evidence has been
received in this regard, and the Board concludes that, even if residents in close proximity to the
proposed facility or elsewhere occasionally smell asphalt, such smells may or may not be
attributable to the proposed facility. In any case, the Board concludes that such odors will be
sporadic, and will not present a significant risk to human health, or significantly detract from the
livability of residences, businesses or other uses in proximity to the proposed facility or

                                                                          EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                                Page 18
                                                                                 cue G8 ace O48

' elsewhere.   During times of highest plant output, June, July, August and September) prevailing
 winds blow toward the Smurfit mill or to the south, away from most residential areas, and away
 from those residences in closest proximity to the proposed facility. In short, following its
 consideration of the factors that the Board is directed to consider under Policy V.A.1.b., the
 Board continues to conclude that the applicant has met its burden of demonstrating that the
 requested zone change and similar use determination, as limited by the Limited Use Overlay
 Zone, meets all applicable plan and zone requirements.
          9        Conclusion
 For the reasons stated herein the Board concludes that the applicant has demonstrated
 compliance with Yamhill County Plan Policy V.A.1.b.

                                                                         EXHIBIT “A” to Ordinance 674
                                                                                               Page 19