Voi 98
                                               968

        BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                         FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL
              SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of the Subdivision Application and Conditional              )
Use Application for Yamhill County Tax Lot 3314-3100                      )
on Sunnyerest Road and Authorizing Sixteen (16) Parcels                   )} ORDINANCE       811
And Dwellings, Applicant Coyote Homes, Inc., representing                 )
Property Owner Samuel and Mildred Eastman, Docket Nos.                    )
S-14-06 and C-20-07, and Declaring an Emergency                           )

         THE    BOARD     OF     COMMISSIONERS            OF YAMHILL          COUNTY,   OREGON       (the
“Board”) sat for the transaction of county business on June 20, 2007, Commissioners Kathy
George, Mary P. Stern, and Leslie Lewis and being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Coyote Homes, Inc., representing Samuel and
Mildred Eastman applied to the Yamhill County Department of Planning (Planning Docket Nos.
S-14-06 and C-20-07) initially applied for a nineteen (19) parcel subdivision, which application
was later amended to a sixteen (16) parcel subdivision application and conditional use permit
application for Yamhill County Tax Lot 3314-3100, located on Sunnycrest Road in Yamhill
County, and

         IT APPEARING         TO THE BOARD            that such applications are authorized pursuant to
ORS   197.352, Yambill County Ordinance 749 and approved by Yamhill County Board Order
No. 05-760 and State of Oregon Final Order No. M118505.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Subdivision Application S-14-06 was
considered and approved by the Yamhill County Planning Director as provided in the Yamhill
County Ordinances, which approval was appealed to the Yamhill County Board of
Commissioners by Mark Bortnem on December 15, 2006, which appeal was considered by the
Board of Commissioners at a duly noticed public hearing scheduled for February 7, 2007, which
meeting was continued to March 7, 2007, and March 28, 2007, after which the Subdivision
Application was amended to request only sixteen (16) parcels and to include a Conditional Use
Application,   C-20-07   as    required   by   1968     Ordinance   29,   which   amended    Subdivision
Application and Conditional Use Applications were considered by the Board of Commissioners
at a duly notice public hearing scheduled for May 9, 2007, meeting was continued to May 23,
2007, at which meetings the Applicant, Property Owners, Opponents and other parties appeared
and testified. The Board received oral objections from Mark Bortnem, an adjacent property
owner, Merilyn Reeves on behalf of Friends of Yamhill, Sid Freidman on behalf of 1000 Friends
of Oregon, and also received written comments and objections to the Subdivision Application
and Amended Subdivision Application. After due consideration of the Application and the
objections presented, the Board tentatively voted 3 to 0 to grant preliminary approval of the
Application with 11 conditions, as noted in Exhibit        A, NOW, THEREFORE,

                                                                                            B.0 -OF- S45
                                         Vol 98
                                         969

          IT   IS   HEREBY   ORDAINED          BY   THE   BOARD,   that   the   Amended    Subdivision
Application and Conditional Use Permit are approved as detailed in the Findings for Approval,
attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated herein. This ordinance, being
necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency
having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.      A map of the area is appended as
Exhibit “B”,

          DONE this 20" day of June, 2007, at McMinnville, Oregon.
ATTEST:                       YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

Jan Coleman                                Rach           Cherige—
County Clerk                           Chair: KathyJGeorge

                                         Kouske           We ( —_
                                       Commissioner: Leslie Lewis

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

   (Zawnd
Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                          Bp   -04-SUS
                                                      Vol 98
                                                      970

                         FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS                  for Ordinance 811
                                        Exhibit “A”

         The following findings of fact and conclusions of law are hereby adopted, and are based
on substantial evidence in the record in this case:

The Findings and Conclusions set forth in the Staff Report for the May 23, 2007, Public Hearing
are hereby adopted in full, just as if they were set forth verbatim herein, except as specifically
provided below.      A copy of said Staff Report is attached hereto and by this reference
incorporated herein.

The Subject Property area currently consists of one lot of 41.9 acres currently zoned Exclusive
Farm Use (EF-20).      The Amended Subdivision Application and Conditional Use Permit
Application will subdivide the Subject Property in sixteen parcels, with the size of the parcels
ranging from 2.50 acres to 3.21 acres in size with an average parcel size of 2.58 acres.

The subdivision of the Subject Property into sixteen (16) parcels is permitted, despite the EF-20
zoning, pursuant to Ballot Measure 37, codified at Oregon Revised Statute 197.352, which
provides waiver of restrictive land use regulations enacted or adopted after the property owner
acquired the Subject Property. Property owners Samuel and Mildred Eastman acquired the
Subject Property on December 4, 1971.

Property owners Samuel and Mildred Eastman received waiver of the restrictive land use
regulations, including the restrictions of the EF-20 zoning, enacted or adopted after December 4,
1971, from the State of Oregon in State of Oregon Measure 37 Final Order No. M118505, and
from Yamhill     County in Yamhill        County Final Board             Order No.    05-760,   both of which
authorized subdivision of the Subject Property into a maximum of twenty (20) parcels.

Yamhill County zoning records indicate that the Subject Property was subject to Yamhill County
zoning   on   December    4,    1971.   On   December       4,   1971,    the   Subject   Property   was   zoned
Agriculture under Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance 29, which was enacted and adopted in
1968.

On March 22, 2007 and April 2, 2007, the Yamhill County Board of Commissioners sat in a
work session to interpret the requirements of the Ag-A zoning under Ordinance 29. In that work
session, and based upon        the information available to the Board of Commissioners,              determined
that the Agriculture zoning permitted outright dwellings on five (5) acre minimum parcels, and
that, in 1971, dwellings would be allowed on parcels at least two and half acres (2%) in size
subject to a Conditional Use Permit. The Board of Commissioners further determined that the
only condition of approval for dwellings on parcels at least two and half acres (2%) in size would
be mandatory removal of the property from farm tax deferral of ORS 318.

The Board of Commissioners considered Judge John Collins’ ruling in the Yamhill County
Circuit Court Case Marla Robison v. State of Oregon, by and through its Department of
Administrative Services and Department of Land Conservation and Development (Case No.
CV05-0305) with regard to Yamhill County property that was zoned Agriculture under

                                                                                                B.0.04- S45
                                                  Vol 98
                                                  971

      Ordinance 29, and determined that the facts and circumstances regarding the Subject Property
      owned by Samuel and Mildred Eastman was factually distinguishable and therefore not binding
      on their decision. Specifically, the Board of Commissioners noted that the Robison ruling was
      based primarily upon the stipulated fact that the Robison property, as well as all other Yamhill
      County rural property, was automatically placed in farm tax deferral under ORS 318. The Board
      of Commissioners received written documentation, including a signed affidavit from David
      Lawson, Yamhill County Assessor, that the Eastman Subject Property, as well as other parcels in
      rural Yamhill County (including the Robison property), were not automatically placed in farm
      tax deferral under ORS 318, and that those property owners were required to apply for farm tax
      deferral. The Board of Commissioners believed that, had this true fact been presented to Judge
      Collins, his decision in Robison would likely have been different.

      The Board of Commissioners determined that the Subject Property is not currently in farm tax
      deferral under ORS 318, and therefore had satisfied the Conditional Use Permit.

      The Board of Commissioners also considered and determined that Judge Collins’ correlation
      between ORS 215 and ORS 318 to be untenable. ORS 215 is land regulation statute and ORS
      318 is a taxation statute.   The Board of Commissioners determined that the application of one
      statute (ORS 318) did not automatically incorporate or apply the provisions of another, unrelated
      land use regulation statute (ORS 215).

10.   The Subject Property is bordered to the south by rural residential properties that are zoned
      VLDR 2%, to the east by property zoned EF-20, and to the north and west by property zoned
      AF-10. The VLDR 2’ - zoned areas to the east consist predominantly of parcels that are less
      than three (3) acres in size, and most of the VLDR 2% acre parcels are developed.

11.   The Planning Director and the Board of Commissioners determined that the Amended
      Subdivision Application and Conditional Use Application satisfy the health and safety standards
      of the Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance (“LDO”) Certain provisions of LDO Chapter 6,
      such as Section 6.000, are not applicable to the Amended Subdivision Application because of the
      Measure 37 waivers.       The subdivision will have to comply with the health and safety
      requirements of Section 6.010(1), 6.010(2), 6.010(6), 6.010(7), 6.015, 6.030, and 6.090.

      The following are the conditions of preliminary approval:

      1.      A final subdivision plat pursuant to the requirements of the Yamhill County Land
      Division Ordinance shall be prepared and submitted to the Planning Director. All existing and
      proposed easements shall be shown on the face of the plat. The Yamhill County Planning
      Docket Number "S-14-06" shall appear on the face of the plat. The subdivision lines shall
      substantially conform to that of the preliminary map.

      2.      The applicant shall dedicate the 60-foot right-of-way along the route as shown on the face
      of the plat. Said right of way shall be brought up to current Public Road Standards. The
      proposed roadways shall have a minimum unobstructed driving surface width of 20 feet and shall
      have an all-weather surface that is capable of supporting not less than 12,500 pounds point load
      (wheel load) and 50,000 pounds live load (gross vehicle weight). The access shall have an
                                      Vol 98
                                      972

 unobstructed horizontal clearance of not less than 25 feet and an unobstructed vertical clearance
 of not less than 14 feet. Average road grade shall not exceed 10% and no grade shall exceed
 15%. A maximum of 200 feet at 15% grade may be allowed.

 3.       For the dedicated road, the applicant shall submit an engineered road design that includes
 a full plan and profile and construction cost estimate to the County Public Works Department.
 The improved road surfacing needs to be an all weather hard surfacing provided on the proposed
 road.  All road improvements shall be constructed to county road standards and inspected by the
 Public Works Department or a private engineer prior to final plat approval, or security shall be
 posted pursuant to Chapter 13 of the Land Division Ordinance.

 4,     The applicant shall dedicate an additional 10-foot of road right-of-way along the
 Sunnycrest Road frontage. In addition, the applicant shall provide a bikeway with a width of 6-
 feet along the Sunnycrest Road frontage.      The design and location of the bikeway shall be
 reviewed and approved by the Public Works Director.

 5.       The applicant shall provide a traffic report/study, acceptable to the Public Works
 Director, of the proposed subdivision with Sunnycrest Road and an engineered design of the
 intersection with Sunnycrest Drive subject to the AASHTO intersection standards.        The traffic
 report/study and intersection design shall be done by a registered traffic engineer. The internal
 road improvements and intersection design shall be completed, or a bond posted, prior to final
 plat approval.

 Cl,

4)
“i
                                           Vol 98
                                           973

6.     The applicant shall submit an engineered drainage plan that maintains the natural
drainage to the maximum extent possible. The plan shall be prepared by a registered
engineer. The drainage plan shall be submitted to and approved by the County Public
Works Director prior to final approval.

7.      Prior to final subdivision plat approval, the applicant shall obtain an approval for
on-site subsurface sewage disposal for Lots | thru 16 pursuant to Section 6.100 of the
Land Division Ordinance. All septic systems shall be located on the individual lots and
maintain the minimum setback requirements of 10 feet from all new property lines. Ifthe
10 foot minimum setbacks from the property lines cannot be maintained, a properly
recorded easement will be required, pursuant to Section 6.100 of the Land Division
Ordinance.

8.     The subdivision shall be shown to have adequate quality and quantity of water to
support the proposed use. Prior to final plat approval, the applicant shall demonstrate
conformance with standard 1, 2, 3 or 4 of Subsection 6.090 of the Land Division
Ordinance. Either domestic water shall be provided to each lot by a community water
system or an on-site well or wells, with the location of the well(s) indicated on the face of
the plat, or the following disclosure shall be placed on the plat:

       No municipal, public utility, community water supply or private system will be
       provided to the purchaser of those lots noted hereon.

Each lot not provided with a well or community service shall be so identified.

9.     Prior to final approval, the applicant shall provide a plan for water supply for fire
suppression to the Newberg Rural Fire Department for their review and approval.

10.    The applicant shall name the proposed right-of-way.     Said name shall be reviewed
and approved by the Planning Director.

ll.    The following language shall be placed on the face of the final plat:

               Lots shown on this plat were authorized by waivers of land use regulations
               by Yamhill County and the State of Oregon pursuant to ORS 197.352,
               2005 replacement part (Measure 37). The Yamhill County waiver is
               found in Board Order 05-760, recorded in the Yamhill County Deed &
               Mortgage Records as Instrument No. 200520679. Yamhill County makes
               no representations or warranties as to the transferability of the lots or any
               development rights related to the lots.

END.

                                                                                     20° OF    S45
Page 6 ~ Findings for Approval, Ordinance                                          %.0      Sis
                                                         Vol 98
                                                         974

                             16-Lot Subdivision and Conditional Use Staff Report
                                    Yambill County Planning Department

DATE:                           Original: November 22, 2006
                                Supplemental: January 31, 2007
                                16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use: May 1, 2007

DOCKET NO.:                     S-14-06/C-20-07

REQUEST:                        The applicant has requested conditional use approval, under the standards in
                                effect in 1971, to allow the creation of 2.5 acre lots. The applicant has also
                               ' amended the request from a 19-lot subdivision to a 16-lot subdivision on an 41.9
                                acre property. The proposed lot sizes are 2.5 acres or greater. This application
                                is being made subsequent to the approval of a Measure 37 claim which allows
                                application for development under the land use regulations in effect on December
                                4, 1971, when the present owner acquired the property. The details of the
                                Measure 37 approval are found in Board Order 05-760 and State Claim
                                M118505.

APPLICANT:                      Coyote Homes, Inc. representing Samuel and Mildred Eastman

TAX LOT:                        3314-3100

LOCATION:                       Approximately 1,000 feet east of the intersection of Red Hills Road and
                                Sunnycrest Road, on the north side of Sunnycrest Road, Newberg Oregon

ZONE:                           EF-20 Exclusive Farm Use

CRITERIA:                       Board Order 05-760 and the Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance

COMMENTS:                       Yamhill Co. Public Works - No comment to date.
                                City of Newberg - There may not be sufficient groundwater supply for this
                                subdivision. Groundwater testing should be required prior to subdivision.
                                Newberg ordinances prohibit connection to the City water supply outside of
                                City limits. The City water supply should not be looked at as a source of water
                                for this subdivision. - Barton Brierley, Planning and Building Director
                                SWCD - See letter dated October 2, 2006.
                                Watermaster - The watermaster gave detailed comments related to water
                                rights.
                                Newberg Fire District - 1. Driveable surface for roadway must be
                                maintained at 20' minimum width. No parking allowed on 20' wide street. Road
                                must meet all fire dept. standards. 2. Road name must also be approved by
                                Newberg Fire. 3. On site water supply required for firefighting purposes,
                                Alternative to this is fire sprinklers installed in all homes with a recorded
                                covenant running with the property. 4. If gate at entrance is installed, must meet
                                access requirements, see fire marshal for details.
FAShare\S\SC- 14-06.sr.wpd
                                                                Vol 98
                                                                975

STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                     16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 2

                                       John & Levina Lawson, 11650 NE Red Hills Rd., Dundee- See
                                       comments in opposition to application.
                                       Mark Bortnem, 21650 NE Sunnycrest Rd., Newberg - See comment letter
                                       dated October 1, 2006.

   FINDINGS:

   A.            Background Facts

   1.            Lot Size: 41,9 acres.

   2.           Access:           Sunnycrest Road borders the southern property line. Yamhill County has designated .
                 Sunnycrest Road as a major collector.

   3.            On-Site Land Use and Zoning: Currently, the property is zoned EF-20 Exclusive Farm Use.
                 The property gently slopes down to the east. The property is predominantly cleared with some
                 trees.

   4.            Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: The surrounding area is zoned EF-20 to the east, AF-
                 10 to the north and west, and VLDR 2.5 to the south. The area is characterized by small scale
                 agriculture and rural residential uses.

   6.           Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows the majority of the soils, approximately 98%, are
                 composed of Amity (Am) and Woodburn (WuB) soils, which are rated as Class II soils, prime
                 farmland.

   7.            Water:         To be provided by a well.

   8.           Sewage Disposal:           On-site subsurface septic systems are the only option.

   9.           Fire Protection: Newberg Rural Fire Department.

   10.          Previous Actions: Samuel and Mildred Eastman filed an application under Measure 37 (2004)
                to remove, modify or not apply the land use regulations in effect when they first acquired the
                property. Their claim was approved as detailed in Board Order 05-760. The Board Order
                states that:

                                Claimant is authorized to make application to divide the subject property into twenty
                                lots and, upon the Planning Director’s issuance of land division approval, to make
                                applications to establish dwellings on undeveloped lots under land use regulations then

   F:\Share\S\SC-14-06.sr.wpd
                                                            Vol 98
                                                            976
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                        16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 3                                                                                             ;

                               in effect on December 4, 1971, a use permitted on the subject property at the time the
                               claimant acquired the property.

                Similarly, the State of Oregon has processed and approved a claim from Samuel and Mildred
               Eastman           through Claim No. M118505.          This claim stated:

                               In lieu of paying just compensation under ORS 197.352, the State of Oregon will not
                               apply the following laws to Samuel and Mildred Eastman’s division of their property
                               into approximately two-acre parcels or to their establishment of dwelling on each
                               parcel: applicable provisions of Statewide Planning Goal 3, ORS 215, and OAR 660,
                               division 33. These land use regulations will not apply to the Eastmans’ use of their
                               property only to the extent necessary to allow them to use the property for the use
                               described in this report, to the extent that use was permitted at the time they acquired
                               the property in 1971.

                Measure 37 does not allow the local jurisdiction to remove, modify or not apply regulations
                related to public health and safety.         Section 1.(3)(b) of Ordinance 749 defines exempt land use
                regulations as a regulation that:

                               (b) Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public health and safety, such as
                               fire and building codes, health and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste
                               regulations, and pollution control regulations.

                Therefore, Yamhill County health and safety regulations will need to be complied with in
                evaluating this land division.

    11.         Natural Hazards:           No apparent natural hazards.

    12.         Taxes: The property is not receiving farm or forest deferral.

    13.         On April 2, 2007 the Board of Commissioners met for the purpose of interpreting Ordinance
                29. The Board interpreted the “A” Agriculture zone in Board Order 07-289. The Measure 37
                claim goes back to a time prior to the adoption of SB 100 (1973) so Subsection J of Board
                Order 07-289 applies. It states:

                               Ordinance 29 did not establish minimum lot sizes within an Agricultural Zone A.
                               However, based on the purpose of the zone as stated in Section 3.050, it is
                               reasonable to imply a minimum lot size appropriate for a dwelling in the zone.
                               Thus, the Board finds that the appropriate minimum lit size for a land division
                               allowed by Measure 37 subject to Ordinance 29 before SB 100 became effective is
                               five acres for dwellings allowed as a permitted use and 2.5 acres for dwellings
   FAShare\S\SC-14-06.sr.wpd
                                                                Vol 98
                                                                977
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                      16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 4

                               allowed as a conditional use. In circumstance where division of a parcel is
                               proposed to separate a dwelling from resource use and the size of the lot
                               containing the dwelling is less than 2.5 areas, the Board finds the division may be
                               allowed as a conditional use following a hearing if the division meets the
                               conditional, use standards in Ordinance 29 and the purpose established for an
                               Agricultural Zone A by Ordinance 29.

                After the Board passed the above interpretation, the applicant revised the preliminary plat
                down from 19 lots to 16 lots and applied for a conditional use approval to create the proposed
                2.5 acre lots. The conditional use is considered in Section D of this staff report.

   B.     Zoning Considerations

   1.           Presently the property is zoned EF-20 Exclusive Farm Use. However, as noted above the
                property has received approval through Measure 37 for the property to be developed under
                the land use regulations in effect at the time the property was acquired by the applicant. The
                Board of Commissioner’s approval of the applicant’s Measure 37 claim records an ownership
                date of December 4, 1971. The subject property was designated as zone “A” Agriculture in
                1968.

   2.           The applicant has applied using the present subdivision standards. The planning staff has tried
               to evaluate the request keeping in mind that many of the standards would not be applied when
               the owner first acquired the property. Notably, the measure does not allow the local
               jurisdiction to remove, modify or not apply regulations related to public health and safety.
               Section 1.(3)(b) of Ordinance 749 defines exempt land use regulations as a regulation that:

                               (b) Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public health and safety, such as
                               fire and building codes, health and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous waste
                               regulations, and pollution control regulations.

                Therefore, health and safety regulations, like the requirement to have the soil evaluated for the
                safe installation of a sewage disposal system, will need to be complied with in evaluating this
                land division. Standards unrelated to health and safety issues will not be required. The
                following staff report is intended to evaluate the request and determine which of the present
                standards are health and safety standards that need to be addressed.           In certain circumstances
                there are some suggestions that have been submitted that can not be required but may be listed
                as suggestions for the applicant to consider. These suggestions will not be required but may be
                something for the applicant to consider.

                Lastly, there have been two letters in opposition to this request. There were many concerns
                expressed but one overriding concern appears to be providing water to the lots within the
   FAShare\S\SC-14-06,sr.wpd
                                                              Vol 98
                                                              978
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-0
               7, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                  16-Lot Subdivision/Co
                                                                                             nditional
                                                                                                         Use Staff Report
Page 5

                subdivision. The applicant has indicated that he intends to establish on-site wells for each
                proposed lot. The drilling of additional wells to support the development would be regulated by
                the Water Resources Department.

   C            Subdivision Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

   1.           The Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance (LDO) Chapter 6 contains general design
                standards for subdivisions. Applicable standards will be addressed in the following findings.

   2.           Section 6.000 of the LDO requires subdivisions to conform with the requirements of the
                Comprehensive Plan and other ordinances. As noted in Finding A.10, the subject property was
                granted state and local approval for a claim under Measure 37. The approval directed that the
                county remove, modify or not apply certain land use regulations so that the applicant can be
                allowed to develop the property under the regulations in place when it was purchased. The
                proposed development does not comply with the local comprehensive plan (i.e. preservation of
                Class I-IV soils for agriculture). However, the local comprehensive plan will not be applied to
                this property because the plan was a land use regulation adopted after the property was
                acquired by the applicant.

   3.           Section 6,.010(1) requires that road improvements be completed or proper security posted as
                specified in Section 13.000. The Planning Department believes the installation and completion
                of a safe road system is a matter of public safety. While the Public Works Department did not
                provide a written response to the initial referral, the Public Works Director did meet with the
                applicant and did talk with County Planning Staff. The Public Works Director stated the
                applicant will be required to submit an engineered road design that includes a full plan and
                profile and construction cost estimate for approval by the County Public Works Department.
                In addition, the applicant will be required to submit a traffic impact study prepared by a traffic
                engineer and a report from a traffic engineer demonstrating that the new intersection of
                Sunnycrest Road and the proposed right-of-way will satisfy AASHTO safety standards.
                Conditions related to the safe design and function of roads will be required on any approval.

                The appellant stated in his appeal:

                               “a. Some valid concerns and recommendations submitted for review were noted in the
                               Staff Report, but where not made approval conditions in the Preliminary Subdivision
                               Approval letter.

                               b. The content of some valid comments and recommendations were not even included
                               in the analysis portion of the Staff Report.”

                When the appellant was in the office reviewing the application he was asked about what “. . .
                valid concerns (comments) and recommendations. . .” were absent from the staff report. The

   FAShare\S\SC-14-06.sr.wpd
                                                           Vol 98
                                                           979

STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 6

                appellant said he could not recall all of them but said one concern was that our office had
                required a report from a traffic engineer, but the condition did not specify what road
                improvements would be required. He also desired to see off-site improvements, like
                intersection improvements to Highway 240. The difficulty with listing specific road
                improvement requirements is that there needs to be a basis for those requirements, like a report
                from a traffic engineer. However, the condition was not intended to only require a report. The
                report is to be the basis for the requirement for road and intersection improvements.      This will
                be noted in the condition. In addition, the Public Works Director will not sign-off on the final
                plat without these road improvements being in place or a bond set aside for them to be
                completed. Even if the condition were absent, certain road improvements can be required
                based on Ordinance 787, Yamhill County Public Safety and Infrastructure.

                As for off-site improvements, our office will recommend off-site improvements recommended
                by the Public Works Director that have some rough proportionality to the overall effect of the
                proposed development.

   4.           Section 6.010(2) requires that the subdivision provide for continuation of the principal streets
                existing in the area. The road does not need to provide for the continuation of the principal
                streets since there is no street across from, or close to, alignment with the proposed right-of-
                way.        The Public Works Director did express concern about the proposed intersection with
                the proposed right-of-way and Sunnycrest Road. This intersection needs to be designed by a
                registered traffic engineer and the design submitted to the Yamhill County Department of Public
                Works for review and approval. This will be made a condition of approval.

   5.           Section 6.010(4) indicates that the Planning Director may require an arrangement of lots and
                streets that will permit a later re-division of the properties. The property is currently outside the
                urban growth boundary and Urban Reserve Area. In addition, the Newberg’ Planning Director
                did not request a shadow plat. Therefore, a shadow plat will not be required.

   6.           Subsection 6.010(6) and (7) outlines specific road standards for public dedication and
                easements. County standards require a 20' wide improved surface. The proposed roadway is
                to be constructed within 60 foot right-of-way.      The County Land Division Ordinance requires a
                60-foot wide dedicated right-of-way for what was proposed by the applicant. Road
                dedication and construction standards will be made as conditions on any approval.

   7.           Subsection 6.010(8) lists the option of property being served by a private drive or easement.
                The applicant has not proposed a private easement so this subsection does not apply.

   8.           Subsection 6.015 requires the dedication of additional right-of-way when requested by the
                Public Works Director. The Director indicated that he is requesting additional right-of-way
                along Sunnycrest Road. The subsection indicates that the dedication shall bring the half road up
   FAShare\S\SC-14-06 sr. wpa
                                                                 Vol 98
STAFF REPORT                                                     980
8-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                            16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 7                                                                      ‘

                to a minimum right-of-way width of 30-feet. The half road is presently 20-feet so an additional
                 10 feet of right-of-way will be required.             This will be made a condition on any approval.

   9,           Subsection 6.030 requires that all lots should form or approximate conventional shapes, with lot
                side lines running at right angles to the street as far as practical, except for lots on cul-de-sac
                streets, where side lot lines shall be radial to the curve.            The Planning Director does not believe
                this is a health and safety issue that can be applied to this request. Nonetheless, the lots
                proposed on the preliminary plat meet the requirements of subsection 6.030.

   10.          Section 6.030(6) of the LDO requires lot drainage to be designed to the specifications adopted
                by the Board of Commissioners. A condition of approval will be made that the applicant be
                required to submit an engineered drainage plan that maintains the natural drainage to the
                maximum extent possible.

   11.          Subsection 6.070 deals with lands subject to hazardous conditions. The property is not in the
                Flood Hazard Overlay zone and is not designated in any hazard area.

   12.          Subsection 6.090 gives the options for water supply to lots within a subdivision. There were a
                number of comments submitted related to water supply. The ordinance gives the following four
                options:

                1.       .     A certification by a municipal, public utility or community water supply system,
                               subject to the regulation by the Public Utility Commission of Oregon, that water will
                               be provided to the parcel line of each and every parcel depicted in the final plat; or

                2              A bond, contract or other assurance by the subdivider or partitioner to the county
                               that a domestic water supply system will be installed on behalf of the subdivider or
                               Partitioner to the parcel line of each and every parcel depicted on the final plat.
                               The amount of any such bond, contract or other assurance by the subdivider or
                               Ppartitioner shall be determined by a registered professional engineer, subject to
                               any change in the amount as determined necessary by the county; or

                3.             A water well report filed with the State of Oregon Water Resources Department for
                               each well provided within a subdivision or partition.      The location of such wells and
                               an appropriate disclosure shall be placed on the face of the final plat. If the
                               subdivider or partitioner intends that domestic water will be provided to the
                               proposed lot or lots by well(s) and no test wells have been drilled, the Director may
                               require that test wells be drilled prior to final approval. The number and location
                               of such wells shall be determined by the director and watermaster having
                               jurisdiction, or

   FAShare\S\SC-14-06.sr.wpd
                                                              Vol 98
                                                              984
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                        16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 8

                4.             In lieu of Subsections (1), (2), and (3) of this Section, when a municipal, public
                               utility, community water supply or private well system is not available, then a
                               statement must be placed on the final plat or map which states:

                                       "No municipal, public utility, community water supply or
                                       private well system will be provided to the purchaser of those
                                       lots noted hereon."

                The applicant has stated that he plans to establish on-site wells for each lot. Permits for wells
                would need to be obtained from the Water Resources Department. The applicant has indicated
                that private wells will provide water for the subdivision and their location and number wil] be
                determined prior to filing the final plat. If wells are drilled prior to the final plat, then the
                applicant will need to submit a map showing the location of the wells and the well report for
                each well. It should also be noted that the applicant also has option #4 above which allows the
                applicant to place a disclaimer on the face of the final plat which states that no water system is
                to be provided.          The applicant will be required to comply with one of the options listed above.

   13.          Subsection 6.100 contains options and requirements for sewage disposal.                  The provision of
                adequate sewage disposal is a health and safety issue that is exempt from Measure 37 so it will
                be required on any approval. No public or city sewer services are available, so each lot will
                be required to be served by an individual on-site subsurface sewage disposal system. Site
                evaluations will be required for each lot. The site evaluation is required to assure there is
                adequate area to locate a septic system so that it will not adversely affect the groundwater in
                the area. In addition to the drainfield location, the site evaluation also identifies a replacement
                area for the septic system. Because of the lot size it may be difficult to site a septic system on
                each newly created parcel. Easements or larger lots may be required. If parcels cannot be
                served by an on-site system, then the subdivision will still be allowed but certain lots may not be
                able to be created. An existing system evaluation will be required for the existing dwelling to
                assure that the system is properly functioning. A site evaluation will be required for each lot to
                assure there is adequate area for the septic tank and drainfield.

   14.          Section 6.120 contains requirements and standards for surveying subdivisions. Since all lots
                will be less than 10 acres in size, a survey complying with these standards will be required.

   D.           Ordinance 29 Conditional Use Standards

   1.           Subsection 6 of Ordinance 29 governs conditional use requests.                Ordinance 29 does not
                contain criteria for conditional use approvals. However, conditional uses may have conditions
                applied to them as noted in the conditional use standards. Subsection 6.010 lists the authority
                to grant or deny conditional uses:

                Section 6.010. Authorization to Grant or Deny Conditional Uses.
   FAShare\S\SC-14-06 sr.wpd
                                                                    Vol 98
                                                                    982
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                         16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 9

                 ()               Conditional uses listed in this ordinance may be permitted, enlarged, or otherwise
                                  altered upon authorization by the planning commission! in accordance with the
                                  standards and procedures set forth in ARTICLE 6 of this ordinance.

                  (2)             In permitting a conditional use or the modification of a conditional use, the
                                  planning commission may impose in addition to those standards and requirements
                                  expressly specified by the ordinance, any additional conditions which the planning
                                  commission considers necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding
                                  property or the county as a whole.   These conditions may include prescribing a
                                  time limit; increasing the required lot size or yard dimensions; limiting the height
                             :. Of buildings; controlling the location and number of vehicular access points to
                            . the property; controlling the location and number of off-street parking and
                                  loading spaces required, limiting the number, size, and location of signs; and
                                  requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping, or other facilities to protect
                                  adjacent or nearby property.

                  (3)      — Inthe case of a use existing prior to the effective date of this ordinance and
                             classified in this ordinance as a conditional use, any change in use or in lot area
                                  or an alteration of structure shall conform with the requirements dealing with
                                  conditional uses.

                  (4)             The planning commission may require that the applicant for a conditional use
                                  furnish the county with a performance bond of up to the value of the cost of the
                                  improvement to be guaranteed by such bond, in order to assure that the
                                  conditional use is completed according to the plans as approved by the planning
                                  commission.

   2.            Subsection 6.010(2) allows the decision maker the ability to impose additional standards and
                 requirements expressly specified by the ordinance and any additional conditions that are
                  determined to be necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or the
                 County as a whole. The health and safety conditions of the zoning ordinance are proposed to
                 be applied to the application and are noted in the above section and in the conditions for
                 approval at the end of this report. The other condition that the Board intends to apply to
                 requests for 2.5 acre lots is noted in the interpretation listed in Board Order 07-289(M) as
                 follows:

                                  M. Where authorized by applicable Oregon tax law. any land divisions allowed by
                                  virtue of an order granting Measure 37 relief should be subject to disqualification

           * The Board of Commissioners is the decision making authority on this land use application
   because the original request was appealed to the Board.
   FAShare\S\SC- 14-06. sr. wpd
                                                                Vol 98
                                                                983

STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                     16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 10

                               of special assessment and payment of back taxes if the basis of the
                               disqualification is that the land divisions created non-farm parcels. It is the
                               Board's belief that land divisions subject to Ordinance 29 prior to October 5,
                               1973 that create lots less than five acres in the Agricultural Zone_A are non-farm
                               parcels.   Further, it is the Board’s belief that land divisions subject to Ordinance
                               29 on October 5, 1973 through February 11, 1976 that create lots less than 10
                               acres in the Agricultural Zone A are non-farm parcels. (Underline added)

                The property is not receiving farm or forestry deferral. If it had been receiving deferral then a
                condition would have been placed on any approval requiring the removal of that deferral prior
                to the creation of the 2.5 acre lots. However, this will not be required as the property is not
                receiving deferral.

   OTHER ISSUES:

   One neighbor submitted a nine page letter, with exhibits, outlining issues related to the subdivision.
   These issues will be discussed below.

   Proposed plat design: The neighbor has described in detail what he believes (and what appear) to be
   dimensional errors on the initial 19-lot preliminary map. The dimensional errors appear to be 20 to 50
   feet. These apparent errors have been passed on to the applicant and will need to be fixed prior to the
   filing of the fina] plat. The opponent requested that a new plat be required to be submitted with a
   reduced number of lots. This was submitted by the applicant. It should be remembered though that the
   preliminary map is just that, preliminary. The first condition on any preliminary approval will state that,
   “The final plat shall substantially conform to that of the preliminary map.” Dimensional adjustments
   frequently occur at the final plat stage and are allowed as long as the final plat substantially conforms to
   that of the preliminary map.

   Lot size: The operative language in the applicant’s Measure 37 claim is as follows:

                “Claimant is authorized to make application to divide the subject property into 20 lots and,
                upon the Planning Director’s issuance of land division approval, to make applications to
                establish dwellings on undeveloped lots under land use regulations then in effect on December
                4, 1971, a use permitted on the subject property at the time claimant acquired the property.”

   Therefore, based on the Measure 37 approval the applicant can apply to divide the property into a
   maximum of 20 lots. The Board of Commissioners has interpreted the A Agriculture zone of
   Ordinance 29 to allow 5-acre lots as a permitted use and 2.5 acre lots with conditional use approval.
   The applicant has amended the request from 19-lots to 16-lots measuring a minimum of 2.5 acres and
   has submitted a conditional use approval to create the 2.5 acre lots.

   PAShare\S\SC-14-06.s7.wpd
                                                                Vol 98
                                                                984
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                     16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 11

   Sewage disposal systems: As noted in Finding B.12 above, a site evaluation will be required for each
   proposed lot. The opponent detailed concerns about nearby water supplies that may be in close
   proximity to the proposed septic systems. The location of existing wells and streams are items that are
   considered with the site evaluation inspection. These will be considered and addressed prior to final
   plat approval. As noted above, if proposed parcels cannot accommodate the septic system then
   easements or reconfiguration of the lots will be necessary. If the septic system still can not be
   accommodated, then the lot! will not be allowed to be created.

   Groundwater:               The opponent submitted a substantial amount of information related to groundwater.
   He recommended that the applicant be encouraged to work very closely with concerned neighbors,
   Yamhill County and the Oregon Water Resources Department (OWRD).                        Our office will pass on this
   request to the applicant.

   Bike improvements: The applicant indicated that they will provide a 6-foot wide bicycle improvement
   along Sunnycrest Road. The opponent asked if this was to extend out to all of Sunnycrest Road. Ina
   ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court in the Case Dolanv. the City of Tigard it was ruled that any
   exactions need to have a “rough proportionality” to the proposed development.                 Requiring a 16 lot
   subdivision to provide the entire bike lane along the entire two mile length of Sunnycrest Road is not
   proportional to the use generated by the proposed development. Therefore, any requirement for a bike
   path would be limited to only the subdivision frontage onto Sunnycrest Road.

   Legal issues: The opponent asked if a substantial vested interest has been defined for this subdivision.
   There has been no definition adopted for this subdivision. In addition, the opponent lists various
   concerns related to Measure 37 and transferability of the land use approval. The courts are in the (very
   slow) process of determining the rights of the applicant to transfer the Measure 37 approval to new
   owners.        In the interim, Yamhill County has required that a disclaimer be placed on the face of the final
   plat which notifies potential owners that the lots were created as part of a successful Measure 37 claim
   and that Yamhill County makes no representations or warranties as to the transferability of the lots or
   any development rights related to the lots.

   CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

   1.           The applicant is requesting a conditional use and subdivision approval to develop a 16-lot
                subdivision on a 41.9 acre property.

   2.           The comprehensive plan designation and zoning are not applied due to the approval of a claim
               under Measure 37 (2004) as found in Board Order 05-760 and State Claim M118505.

   3.           With conditions the request can be made consistent with the health and safety standards and
               criteria of the Land Division Ordinance.

   FAShare\S\SC- 14-06,
                    sr. wpd
                                                         Vol 98
                                                         985
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                 16- Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 12

   STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

   The Yamhill County Planning Director recommends the request by Coyote Homes Inc., representing
   Sam and Mildred Eastmen, for a conditional use and subdivision approval to allow a 16-lot subdivision
   on Tax Lot 3314-3100, be granted preliminary approval with the following conditions:

   1.            A final subdivision plat pursuant to the requirements of the Yamhill County Land Division
                 Ordinance shall be prepared and submitted to the Planning Director. All existing and proposed
                 easements shall be shown on the face of the plat. The Yamhill County Planning Docket
                 Number "S-14-06" shall appear on the face of the plat. The subdivision lines shall substantially
                 conform to that of the preliminary map.

                 The applicant shall dedicate the 60-foot right-of-way along the route as shown on the face of
                 the plat. Said right of way shall be brought up to current Public Road Standards. The
                 proposed roadways shall have a minimum unobstructed driving surface width of 20 feet and
                 shall have an all-weather surface that is capable of supporting not less than 12,500 pounds
                 point load (wheel load) and 50,000 pounds live load (gross vehicle weight). The access shall
                 have an unobstructed horizontal clearance of not less than 25 feet and an unobstructed vertical
                 clearance of not less than 14 feet. Average road grade shall not exceed 10% and no grade
                 shall exceed 15%. A maximum of 200 feet at 15% grade may be allowed.

                 For the dedicated road, the applicant shall submit an engineered road design that includes a full
                 plan and profile and construction cost estimate to the County Public Works Department. The
                 improved road surfacing needs to be an all weather hard surfacing provided on the praposed
                 road. All road improvements shall be constructed to county road standards and inspected by
                 the Public Works Department or a private engineer prior to final plat approval, or security shall
                 be posted pursuant to Chapter 13 of the Land Division Ordinance.

                 The applicant shall dedicate an additional 10-foot of road right-of-way along the Sunnycrest
                 Road frontage. In addition, the applicant shall provide a bikeway with a width of 6-feet along
                 the Sunnycrest Road frontage.     The design and location of the bikeway shall be reviewed and
                 approved by the Public Works Director.                               ve.   her Pal cuanieg Tarecter
                                                         egerx|           - acer”
                 The applicant shall provide a traffic impatT study of the proposed subdivision with Sunnycrest
                 Road and an engineered design of the intersection with Sunnycrest Drive subject to the
                 AASHTO intersection standards. The traffic impactstudy and intersection design shall be
                 done by a registered traffic engineer. The internal road improvements and intersection design
                 shall be completed, or a bond posted, prior to final plat approval.
                                              an     ew apnaeved    dive oot     Ten        we   maimkars     He
                 The applicant shall submit a drainag               vin        é-na         drainase-is-disturbed-byany
                                    iy                  she-proposed-lots. The plan shall be prepared by a
                   Wehave}       Arama   do tte    yradmMun        Ge lend "pesg: *hYe,
   FAShare\S\$C- 14-06, sr.wpd
                                                                  Vol 98
                                                                  986
STAFF REPORT
S-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)                       16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 13

                registered engineer. The drainage plan shall be submitted to and approved by the County
                Public Works Director prior to final approval.

                Prior to final subdivision plat approval, the applicant shall obtain an approval for on-site
                subsurface sewage disposal for Lots 1 thru 16 pursuant to Section 6.100 of the Land Division
                Ordinance. All septic systems shall be located on the individual lots and maintain the minimum
                setback requirements of 10 feet from all new property lines. If the 10 foot minimum setbacks
                from the property lines cannot be maintained, a properly recorded easement will be required,
                pursuant to Section 6.100 of the Land Division Ordinance.

                The subdivision shall be shown to have adequate quality and quantity of water to support the
                proposed use. Prior to final plat approval, the applicant shall demonstrate conformance with
                standard 1, 2,3 or 4 of Subsection 6.090 of the Land Division Ordinance. Either domestic
                water.shall be provided to each lot by a community water system or an on-site well or wells,
                with the location of the well(s) indicated on the face of the plat, or the following disclosure shall
                be placed on the plat:

                               No municipal, public utility, community water supply or private system will be
                               provided to the purchaser of those lots noted hereon.

                Each lot not provided with a well or community service shall be so identified.

                Prior to final approval, the applicant shall provide a plan for water supply for fire suppression to
                the Newberg Rural Fire Department for their review and approval.

   10.          The applicant shall name the proposed right-of-way.             Said name shall be reviewed and
                approved by the Planning Director.

   ll.           The following language shall be placed on the face of the final plat:

                               Lots shown on this plat were authorized by waivers of land use regulations by
                               Yamhill County and the State of Oregon pursuant to ORS 197.352, 2005
                               replacement part (Measure 37).     The Yamhill County waiver is found in Board
                               Order 05-760, recorded in the Yamhill County Deed & Mortgage Records as
                               Instrument No. 200520679. Yamhill County makes no representations or
                               warranties as to the transferability of the lots or any development rights related
                               to the lots.

   FAShare\S\SC-14-06.sr.wpd
                                                        Vol 98
                                                        987
STAFF REPORT
§-14-06/C-20-07, (Coyote Homes representing Eastman)             16-Lot Subdivision/Conditional Use Staff Report
Page 14

   Suggestion:

 . The following is not a condition of approval because it is not directly related to issues of health and
   safety. This is considered by the Yamhill County Planning Staff as being worthy of consideration so it is
   suggested for the applicant to consider when completing this subdivision.

   1.           Since the development is near farmland, development of the lots should be tied to waivers of
                the right to complain about farm practices and/or strong CC&Rs stipulating that residents shall
                not complain about neighboring farm practices,

                                                                            FAShare\S\SC-14-06.sr.wpd

  FAShare\S\SC-14-06.s0.wpd
         2                                                                                                                                                                                              "ON! ‘SHWOH " SLOAOD     NOS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lthibd "8°
                                                                                                                                                                                                              >
         nae                                                                                                WOOTHpS NAA                                                                 NOS3YdO                 ALNNOD.         THHAVA
         a 3                                                                                              - gce-6op (cos) xe                                                                a
         s     si Zz                                                                                          £T2T-69% (eos) euoud                                                                      duls4 HOA NNAOS                                                S
         =     g         a                                                                                    80026 UoGsi9 “uopeakag                                                    Nod                  AELOAOD.          HHL      : LV                     ren   ied
         oO}   rep       =                                                                                    ZEzZ oUNS |            :                                                  :              AS          :  :                sO
         EEE
         Sh oy                                                                                                           MS 96TS
                                                                                                          _ ‘PaBABINOG (18H
                                                                                                                                      :                                                LVId ANVNIWITAYd
                                                                                                                                                                                              q         SH     TaViLS          ALL                 .                   ira
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       [5
                                                                                                                            id                                         bod                                         oo
                                 +
                         =                                                                                                  a                                           i
                     be
                     a
                                                                                                                            =                                           es
                                                                                                                                                                        EG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           =   S
                         a                                                                                                                                              fra                                                                    x
                         ~                             ween                    ee                                                                                    RBS
                                                                                                                                                                      foo tad                                                              aaly
         oe                          ~BSEE-——              e                  cian                            a                      hee                                                SR                                       ae =
Val 98
988

                                                   oj=
                                                   SS                           2                 tal}                                        2=             in i                         2                                                oe~
                                                   aye M5 “
                                                  RIES
                                                                                                    og&                      Na ~                                ar
                                                                                                                                                                 |  a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8
                                                   SO)UD        Lod                                       H
          8                                      ~~                            (oo'08s~~                  {                         G0°06F
          8                                       006                                   T He                            mm t
          -                                            |                                H                                                                                          H
          =                                                                                   ~                                           —
                                                                                                                                          1                                        H|                                                                  £0   =e               ;
                                                            of Bgeri2 2                                                                                 NF 2                                  oe                                                       m5
                                                                                             Fa                    Qo           .                            Q             .                                                                                -
                                                                          5         P| Bd                 =]                     i                               i         i                       3s                                      7
         a                                                  me                      AebgTS  Blais                                         |
                                                                                                                                                             “RS                   |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       er                        seg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       *
                                                       anette     eee                                         eee                    iH                                        |                  nee
                                                SANE            ss) A                         ia                        a                               062                                   aE
                                                                                        :                                                 '
                                                                                       it
                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                  |                        .
                                                                                                                                                             |                                                      pom   cee enema                         ine        cnn
                                                                                    3                          2                B                        2                 B                      oO     2
                                                                                                                                                                                                         5
                                                                      2
                                                           Sz                       3 } Se                                       8}                      ag H
         ee      ne          LO         rep 0806
                                                                                        |
                                                                                        [oo---100°06-----———- Loa
                                                                                                                                          |        O8F——-                      of        —--——LIO
                 8
                             t                                            qQ
                                                                          58
                                                                                                                                                   [
                                                                                                                                                   :
                                                                                                                                                                     . —
                                                                                                                                                                       =                  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                  To.                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g
                 %           i                                            ”                                                                        |                  od                  |                               &
                     ;       H                                            rn                                                                       }                   i                  !
                ot           |                                            ee                                                                       |
                 _           :                                                                                                                      '                                     :
                                                                                                                                                   i                                      :