BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                  OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment From Very __ )
Low Density Residential to Commercial; a Zoning Map                  )
Amendment from VLDR-1, Very Low Density Residential to               )    Ordinance 902
HC, Highway Commercial; and Imposition of a Limited Use              )
Overlay, for a .88-acre Parcel of Land, Tax Lot 3219CB-1400,         4)
24075 Highway 99W, Newberg, Applicant Nash Investments               )
LLC, Planning Docket PAZ-01-16, and Declaring an Emergency           )

          THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the
Board) sat for the transaction of county business on May 4, 2017, Commissioners Stan Primozich,
Mary Starrett and Richard L. “Rick” Olson being present.

        IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Nash Investments LLC has requested a plan
amendment and zone change for an approximately .88-acre parcel, Tax Lot 3219CB-1400 (24075
Highway 99W, Newberg); and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that this matter came before the Planning Commision
for public hearing on March 2, 2017, there was no testimony in opposition, and the Planning
Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the application by the Board of Commissioners;
and

           IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that this matter came before the Board on April 6,
2017 for public hearing and that, following the hearing (with no testimony in opposition) and
deliberation, the Board voted 3-0 to approve the application pending the adoption of a final written
decision and findings on May 4, 2017; NOW, THEREFORE

         THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

          Section 1.  The findings attached as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference
are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

         Section2.     The Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Maps of Yamhill County are hereby
amended as specified in the attached Exhibit “B,” incorporated herein by this reference, to reflect
a plan designation of “Commercial,” and a zoning designation of “HC-Highway Commercial for
Tax Lot 3315-3800 identified on the attached Exhibit “B” map.

                                                                                     Ordinance 902
                                                                              (Board Order 17-153)
                                                                                             Page |
          Section 3.  A Limited Use Overlay is hereby imposed on Tax Lot 3219CB-1400,
limiting the commercial uses allowed on the property as specified at the close of the findings
attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.

          Section 4.    This Ordinance being necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill    County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
immediately.

          DONE this 4" day of May, 2017, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:

BRIAN VAN B
County Clerk                                            ~AIANP.ee

By        bal
Deputy/Crystal Cox                                            a oe

FORM APPROVED BY:                          ei hi         Me O,—
     |                                Commissioner            RICHARD   L. “RICK” OLSON

Timothy S. Sadlo
Seniar Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                ORDINANCE 902
                                                                             (Board Order 17-153)
                                                                                           Page 2
                           EXHIBIT A —- ORDINANCE 902
                              (BOARD ORDER 17-153)
                    FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL AND CONDITIONS
                     IMPOSED UNDER A LIMITED USE OVERLAY

DOCKET      NO.:             PAZ-01-16

REQUEST:                     Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Very Low
                             Density Residential to Commercial and a zone change from VLDR-
                             1, Very Low Density Residential to HC, Highway Commercial.

APPLICANT:                   Nash Investments LLC

OWNER:                       Nash Investments LLC

TAX LOT:                     3219CB-1400

LOCATION:                    24075 Highway 99W, Newberg

REVIEW CRITERIA:             Sections 502, 603, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                             Ordinance.    Section 904, Limited Use Overlay;     Comprehensive
                             Plan    policies  as   addressed   herein;   OAR    660-12-0060
                             (Transportation Planning Rule); the Unincorporated Communities
                             Rule in OAR 660-022-0030; and Statewide Planning Goal 14.

FINDINGS:

A.   Background      Facts

1.   Lot Size: Approximately 0.88 acres.

     Access: NE Home Acres Road. The application notes that there may be access at the
     southwest corner of the property, over County road/ODOT rights-of-way; however, there
     is no direct access onto Highway 99W.

     On-Site Land Use and Request: The parcel currently has a non-conforming tavern.         The
     property is located less than a quarter mile southwest of the Newberg city limits. The
     applicant is requesting the plan amendment and zone change to Highway Commercial with
     a limited use overlay that would limit the permitted uses on the parcel to:

               A. Drinking place, of no more than 1,980 square feet
               B. Restaurant, with a maximum floor area of no more than 2,630 square feet
               C. Convenience store, with a maximum floor area of 1,200 square feet and
                  limited to 15 to 16 hours of operation per day.

      Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: The parcels to the north and northwest are zoned
      VLDR-1, Very Low Density Residential and consists of rural residences on %-acre lots.
      The parcel to the southwest is zoned LI and is used for custom metal and welding services.
      Highway 99W borders the parcel to the south. Property south and east, across Highway
      99W, is zoned VLDR-2.5 and is primarily developed with rural residences.
      Water: The application indicates the parcel is served by city water.

      Sewage Disposal: The parcel currently has a septic system.

      Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows the entire parcel is composed of Woodburn
      (WuB), Class II, prime farmland. (Note: While the property contains soils that are rated
      as “high-value” agricultural soils, in 1980 the property was excepted from the farm and
      forest preservation goals.)

      Exception: The property was found to be a committed exception in Code Area 1.8, adopted
      by Exception’s Statement II, April 23, 1980 and was plan designated VLDR, Very Low
      Density Residential. The exception area is not within an ‘unincorporated community’ as
      that term is defined by OAR 660-022-0010(10).
      Fish and Wildlife:           The property is not identified as being on any county adopted fish and
      wildlife habitat plan.

10.   Overlay Districts: Prior to this ordinance, none.

      Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

      The types of permitted uses in the Highway Commercial Zone are listed in YCZO Section
      603 as follows:

                     Automobile service station;
         QA™mmSaws

               Drive-in restaurant, restaurant, or refreshment stand;
               Food store, maximum floor area of two thousand (2,000) square feet;
               Fruit or vegetable stand, commercial;
               Gift, souvenir or antique shop;
               Motel;
               Dwelling in conjunction with a permitted use. If a dwelling is a mobile home, it
           shail in addition to the requirements of this Section, also be subject to the mobile home
           standards set forth in Section 1002;
           HI. Accessory uses;
           I         Temporary structures as may be required during construction of an authorized
          permanent structure. Such temporary structure shall be removed upon final inspection
           of the permanent structure by the Building Inspector;
           J. Community or municipal water supply system;
           K. Community or municipal sewer system; and
           L. Signs, pursuant to the sign provisions set forth in Section1006.

                                                                           EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                                 Findings for Approval
                                                                               and Conditions Imposed
                                                                            Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                                  Page 2
The applicant’s request for a “restaurant” is listed as a permitted use, however, a “drinking
place” and “convenience store” are not specifically listed. Section 603.04 of the YCZO
states:

Any use not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use in this District that is
similar in character, scale and performance to the permitted uses specified in subsection
603.02 may be allowed as a similar use, subject to the provisions of Section 1206, and
pursuant to the Type A application procedure set forth in Section 1301.

The purpose of Section 1206 of the YCZO is to provide for those uses not specifically
listed in a particular zoning district but that are similar in character, scale and performance
to the permitted uses specified in zoning districts in which a similar use may be authorized.
Although all of the uses proposed appear to be allowed outright or as similar uses, the
applicant did not apply for, nor address, similar use requirements of the county’s ordinance.
If necessary, the applicant must address such requirements at that time of Site Design
Review.

The Plan Amendment portion of the request must comply with the Yamhill County
Comprehensive Plan, the Oregon Revised Statutes and the Oregon Administrative Rules,
which are addressed throughout these findings.

The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and criteria in
YCZO Section 1208.02. These standards are:

(A)       The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
          applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

          Regarding criterion (A), since an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3 and 4
          has already been taken for the subject parcel, Comprehensive Plan goals and
          policies related to agricultural and forest lands are not applicable. Other Plan goals
          and policies that may be pertinent are addressed on pages 7-10 of the application
          narrative and are incorporated herein by reference.

(B)       There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
          requested zone,   considering the importance    of such uses to the citizenry or the
          economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
          the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
          uses allowed by the zone.

          Regarding the need for the proposed use, criterion (B), the applicant has submitted
          sufficient evidence and testimony to demonstrate the need for the uses allowed by
          the requested zone. The applicant states there will be a continued and anticipated
          increase in traffic on Highway 99W that creates a need for additional highway
          supporting services such as restaurants, drinking establishments and food stores.

                                                                 EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                       Findings for Approval
                                                                     and Conditions Imposed
                                                                  Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                       Page 3
      The application provides information stating that the owner receives phone calls on
      a weekly basis asking to rent the space. The applicant has provided testimony and
      evidence demonstrating that there is a lack of available HC zoned property in
      Yamhill County, and that there is an existing need for the types of uses allowed in
      the HC zone.

(C)   The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
      density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
      occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
      utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
      district.

      A portion of criterion (C) requires that the applicant demonstrate that the proposed
      change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses and the density and
      pattern of development in the area. The surrounding area is composed of rural
      residences and industrial uses. The previous use of the parcel was as a tavern that
      operated on the property for many years without apparent conflicts. No testimony
      was received in opposition to the proposal.      The applicant notes the proposed
      small-scale restaurant, drinking establishment and/or convenience store is more
      attractive than what currently exists and would have a low impact on the
      surrounding land uses. Due to its location, size and present development, the
      subject parcel is not ideally suited for residential use, as would be allowed under
      current zoning. The parcel abuts Highway 99W and would provide services for the
      traveling public and provide goods and services within walking distance of the
      small neighborhood adjacent to the site. The applicant intends to rely on the current
      level of services provided by the city (water, fire and police). Subsequent Site
      Design Review is required, in order to address the need for other services and
      facilities such as septic and site drainage.

(D)   Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
      unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
      other factors.

      During the application and hearing proceedings, the applicant evaluated 13 tax lots
      currently zoned HC    in the County   and established that all of the HC    tracts are
      developed and in use for similar or other purposes except for Tax Lot 3325-600,
      which is a 14.66 acre parcel located in the Newberg — Dundee corridor. The
      applicant states that that parcel is too large for the purposes intended by the
      applicant and its availability and viability are questionable due to the anticipated
      East Dundee interchange project, which, as proposed, will utilize much of the 14.66
      acres.

                                                             EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                   Findings for Approval
                                                                 and Conditions Imposed
                                                              Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                     Page 4
               The applicant also notes that the purpose of the County HC zoning is to provide
               support services for state highways “outside the urban area.”       The purpose of the
               Highway Commercial District states:

               The purpose of the HC District is to provide limited small-scale highway and tourist
               commercial services for the traveling public in specially designated highway-
               service centers where access, traffic-turning movements and off-street parking can
               be provided in a safe, convenient, economic and attractive manner.             The
               establishment of an HC District shall be based on present foreseeable demand for
               limited services to the traveling public. In areas adjacent to Highways 99W and
                18, the size, spacing, layout and design of such centers shall ensure that the view
               from the highway and the rural atmosphere of the county are not impaired: and
               that the scale and service requirements of the facilities do not have an adverse
                impact on, unduly compete with, or place any unusual service demands on nearby
                urban centers.

               Section 1208.02 (D) requires evaluation of lands “in the county,” without
               qualification. In the course of the proceedings, the applicant submitted sufficient
               information to establish that this standard is met.

     (E)       The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
               exceptions, if applicable.

               Exception requirements, criterion (E), are addressed in section C of this report.

      Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis
IA

     One of the concerns addressed by Goal 14 is to limit the intensity of development to that
     which is rural in nature. The following are the relevant sections of the administrative rules
     related to Goal 14, Unincorporated Communities (OAR 660-022-0030(4) and ( 10)), and
     states:

     (4) County plans and land use regulations may              authorize   only   the following   new
     commercial uses in unincorporated communities:

               (a) Uses authorized under Goals 3 and 4;

               (b) Small-scale, low impact uses;

               (c) Uses intended to serve the community and surrounding rural area or the travel
               needs of people passing through the area.

     (10) For purposes of subsection (b) of section (4) of this rule, a small-scale, low impact
     commercial use is one which takes place in an urban unincorporated community in a

                                                                      EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                             Findings for Approval
                                                                           and Conditions Imposed
                                                                        Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                               Page 5
    building or building not exceeding 8,000 square feet of floor space, or in any other type of
    unincorporated community in a building or buildings not exceeding 4, 000 square feet of
    floor space.
     In Friends of Yamhill County v. Yamhill County, 49 Or LUBA 529 (2005) LUBA stated:
     “Goal 14 implicitly requires that the intensity of uses allowed on rural lands outside
    unincorporated communities be less than the maximum intensity allowed inside
    unincorporated communities.” The size of commercial uses allowed in unincorporated
    communities is 4,000 square feet. LCDC has determined that appropriate commercial
    uses in the rural area should be no more than 3,500 square feet. In order to avoid taking
    an exception to Goal 14, the building(s) area needs to be less than 3,500 square feet of floor
    area.   As noted above under Section A.3 of these findings, the application indicates that
    building sizes will be limited to less than 3,000 square feet (2,630 square feet at most).
    Therefore, an exception to Goal 14 is not required. Additionally, the property was found
    to be a committed exception in Code Area 1.8, adopted by Exception’s Statement II, April
    23, 1980 and was plan designated VLDR, Very Low Density Residential. For these
    reasons, an exception to Goals 3 and 4 is not required.

    It should also be noted that the minimum parcel size in the HC zone is 20,000 square feet
    (currently, the VLDR zone allows a one acre parcel size), however, the subject parcel
    appears to be currently comprised of four separate lots (Lots 23, 24, 26 and 27) created as
    part of the Home Acres Subdivision in 1912. These lots range in size from approximately
    1,600 square feet to 15,500 square feet. It is unlikely each of these lots could be developed
    separately given site limitations such as septic requirements and setbacks. Furthermore, the
    applicant has proposed development of the site as one 0.88-acre parcel.

    Limited Use Overlay Provisions
=

    Section 904.03 of the YCZO allows the imposition of a limited use overlay, as follows:

    (A)     When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
            underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance
            adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.

    (B)     The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require conditional use approval
            for uses normally permitted outright.

    (C)     Reasonable conditions may be imposed in the Limited Use Overlay District as are
            necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and
            this ordinance.

    (D)     Until the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses in an LU
            district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance.

                                                                   EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                         Findings for Approval
                                                                       and Conditions Imposed
                                                                    Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                         Page 6
    Since the HC, Highway Commercial zone allows other commercial uses that have not been
    evaluated to determine whether they are appropriate to the area, it is appropriate to apply a
    Limited Use Overlay to allow only the following permitted uses requested by the applicant,
    provided the total building area does not exceed 3,500 square feet:

           A.    Drinking place, of no more than 1,980 square feet
           B.    Restaurant, with a maximum floor area of no more than 2,630 square feet
           C.    Convenience store, with a maximum floor area of 1,200 square feet and
                 limited to 15 to 16 hours of operation per day.

    In addition to limiting the uses to what was requested, the limited use overlay zone
    conditions state that, prior to use of the property for the above uses, the applicant must
    obtain Site Design Review approval subject to Section 1101 of the YCZO, to ensure that
    issues such as screening and parking are appropriately addressed.

    Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis
=

    The Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12 OAR 660-12-060 states:

    (1)    Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land
           use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure
           that allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and
           level of service of the facility. This shall be accomplished by either:

           (a)      Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                    capacity and level of service of the transportation facility,
           (b)     Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                   facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                    requirements of this division; or,
           (c)     Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                    demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

    (2)   A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
          facility if it:

           (a)      Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
                    transportation facility;
           (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
           (c)      Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or
                    access which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
                    transportation facility; or
           (d)      Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                    acceptable level identified in the TSP.

                                                                   EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                         Findings for Approval
                                                                       and Conditions Imposed
                                                                    Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                         Page 7
      Regarding (1) and (2), the request is to approve a plan amendment/zone change, so the
      above administrative rules apply. The traffic study submitted by the applicant established
      that the applicant’s proposed limited use of the property will not increase peak travel over
      a Child Care Center, which is currently a permitted use in the VLDR zone. The County
      Engineer stated that it is the county’s expectation that the existing intersection will
      accommodate the increase in traffic anticipated from the proposal.

      Additionally, Ordinance 787, Public Safety Infrastructure Ordinance, requires that the
      Public    Works      Department   review the expected    traffic generation proposed         by any
      development and it must be found that the nearby roads are adequate to handle any increase.
      If road        improvements   are required,   then Ordinance   787     allows   the Public   Works
      Department to require any necessary road improvements.              Evidence in the record
      establishes that there will not be a significant impact to the transportation facilities in the
      area if the use of the property is restricted to the facility as proposed. Therefore, with
      application of an appropriate limited use overlay zone, the request complies with the
      Transportation Planning Rule.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.    The proposal meets county standards governing Comprehensive Plan amendments and
      zone changes.

      The proposal is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.             With conditions
      imposed        under a Limited Use     Overlay, the proposed    use will be compatible with
      surrounding uses.

      With the application of a Limited Use Overlay, no Goal 14 exception is needed.

      The applicant has demonstrated that the use complies with the Transportation Planning
      Rule in that it will not have a significant effect on transportation facilities in the area.

CONDITIONS IMPOSED UNDER A LIMITED USE OVERLAY:

The following conditions are imposed under the Limited Use Overlay imposed                   on Tax Lot
3219CB-1400 by Ordinance 902:

Li    Uses shall be limited to:

                A.        Drinking place, of no more than 1,980 square feet;
                B.        Restaurant, with a maximum floor area of no more than 2,630 square feet;
                C.        Convenience store, with a maximum floor area of 1,200 square feet and
                          limited to 15 to 16 hours of operation per day.

                                                                           EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                                 Findings for Approval
                                                                               and Conditions Imposed
                                                                            Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                                 Page 8
The maximum allowable total building(s) floor space for commercial uses shall not exceed
3,500 square feet.

An application for site design review, and similar use as necessary, shall be submitted by
the applicant and approved by the County prior to any new development.

                                                            EXHIBIT A — Ordinance 902
                                                                  Findings for Approval
                                                                and Conditions Imposed
                                                             Under Limited Use Overlay
                                                                                  Page 9
                   ORDINANCE NO. 902 - EXHIBIT B MAP
                      PLANNING DOCKET PAZ-01-16
                          TAX LOT 3219CB-1400
               YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                              MAY 4, 2017
                       A PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
                     VLDR,     VERY      LOW   DENSITY   RESIDENTIAL
                                 TO C, COMMERCIAL
                             AND A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                    VLDR-1I,    VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
                            TO HC, HIGHWAY           COMMERCIAL

               NE   Home    Actes   Rd

CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX        LOT    3219CB-1400    AS HIGHLIGHTED      ABOVE.   APPROXIMATE
SCALE - 1 INCH = 100 FEET