Vol 100
                                                            2002
                                                                                                         ‘O?   OCT 1g      Pas
             BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                         FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                         SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment
from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to Commercial Forestry;

                                                                                   Ne Nee
& a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm use to F-80, Forestry.
Docket PAZ-11-07, Tax Lots 5602-300, 301 and 302 , Applicant                                  Ordinance 820
David Pratt Successor Trustee of the Cecil Gross Revocable
Living Trust and the Delores Gross Revocable Living Trust,
and Declaring an Emergency

            THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the “Board”) sat
for the transaction of county business on October 17, 2007, Commissioners                   Kathy George, Mary P. Stern
and Leslie Lewis being present.

            IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD                that    David Pratt Successor Trustee of the Cecil Gross
Revocable    Living Trust   and the Delores       Gross Revocable          Living Trust      applied   for Approval     of a
Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to Commercial Forestry; and a
zone change from EF-20, Exclusive Farm use to F-80, Forestry, and

           IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard at a duly noticed public hearing
before the Planning Commission, which unanimously recommended approval; and a public hearing was held
before the Board on October 3, 2007. After hearing testimony from the applicant the Board voted 2 to 0
(Commissioner Stern being excused) to approve the application. NOW, THEREFORE,

        IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as detailed in the
Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated herein. This ordinance,
being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency
having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

            DONE this 17” day of October, 2007, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                      YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN
County Clerk                    ¥                       we)                 KATHY GEORGE

By:   vee         | ky      i                 :                       wh Sten
Deputy Anne Britt                   os                sioner                MARY P. STERN

APPROVED AS TO FO)
                                                                       7    LESLIE LEWIS
      NW OW
Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel                 PALU\PrattPAZ-11-070rdFinds.wpd

                                                                                                       B.0. 04-448
                                                         Vol 100
                                                         2003

Docket PAZ-11-07
Page 2

DOCKET NO.:            PAZ-11-07

REQUEST:                Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry
                        Large Holding to Commercial Forestry; a zone change from EF-80,
                        Exclusive Farm use to F-80, Forestry.

APPLICANT:              Catherine Wright representing David Pratt Successor Trustee of the Cecil
                        Gross Revocable Living Trust and the Delores Gross Revocable Living
Trust
TAX LOTS:               5602-300, 301 and 302

LOCATION:              27000 SW Deer Creek Park Road, Sheridan

CRITERIA:               Sections 401, 402 and 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.
                        Comprehensive Plan policies may be applicable.

FINDINGS:

A, Background Facts

1.      Lot Size: Approximately 472 acres.

2.      Access: Deer Creek Park Road.

3.      On-Site Land Use: Currently, the parcel is in timber production and contains two
        residences and small outbuildings.

4,      Surrounding Zoning: The surrounding area is zoned a mixture of EF-80, AF-80 and F-80
        and is predominantly forested. One parcel to the east of the subject properties is zoned
        PRO Parks, Recreation and Open Spaces. This property contains the Yamhill County Deer
        Creek Park, Property to the west is owned by BLM, Bureau of Land Management.

5.      Water: On-site well.

6.      Sewage Disposal: An on-site subsurface system would be required for any residential use.

7,      Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey indicates the predominant soil types are Peavine
        and Willakenzie, mainly non-high value soils. A soil percentage detail can be found in the
        file.

8.      Fire Protection: Sheridan Rural Fire District.

9.      Previous Actions: In 2005 Cecil Gross received approval under Measure 37 (2004), Docket

                                                                                     0     OF -F4S
                                                       Vol 100
                                                       2004

Docket PAZ-11-07
Page 3

        # M37-143-05. In 2006 the property was partitioned through Docket # P-51-06 and then in
        2007 three applications for lot-line adjustments were approved through Docket #’s L-01-
        07, L-20-07 and L-58-07.

B.   Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.      The approval of the requested zone change is based on the Board finding the request
        complies with the review criteria found in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning
        Ordinance, as follows:

        Review Criteria for Amendments to or within Exclusive Farm Use and
        Agricultural/Forestry Zones

        A quasi-judicial zone change to (1) amend the designation of land from Exclusive Farm
         Use, Agriculture/Forestry, or Forest to another of these zones, or (2) change the minimum
        lot size of land designated Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry, may be
        authorized, pursuant to Subsection 1208.01, provided that the request satisfies all
        applicable requirements of this ordinance, and also provided that the applicant
        demonstrates compliance with the following criteria:

        A,      The proposed amendment shall comply with the goals, policies, and other
                applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan.

        B.      The proposed designation shall be appropriate for the existing or intended use of
                the property.

        C.      The proposed amendment shall result in an area of at least 160 contiguous acres
                with the requested designation, including adjacent land.

        D.      For proposed changes within or to an Exclusive Farm Use designation, the new
                minimum lot size shall be appropriate to maintain the existing commercial
                agricultural enterprise in the area.

        E.      For proposed changes within or to an Agriculture/Forestry designation, the new
                minimum lot size shall be shown to assure:

                Ll.     The opportunity for economically efficient forest and agriculture practices
                        typically occurring in the area; and

                2.      The opportunity for the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree
                        species; and

                3.      The conservation of other forest values found on forest lands.
                                                Vol 100
                                                2005

Docket PAZ-11-07
Page 4

      F      Any amendment that would change the zone map designation to reduce the
              minimum lot size on property within an Exclusive Farm Use or
              Agriculture/Forestry district shall not be granted final approval by Yamhill county
              until the amendment has been considered and approved by the Land Conservation
              and Development Commission pursuant to ORS 215.780(2).         The following rules
              shall apply:

              1.     Conditional approval. Following receipt of an application for a zone
                     change as otherwise provided by this ordinance, the county shall determine
                     whether to grant or deny the application in accordance with criteria
                     established in this section 1208.03. If the application is granted, the county
                     shall enter an order of conditional approval, subject to final approval by
                     the Land Conservation and Development Commission.

              2.     Referral of Order of Conditional Approval. After conditional approval by
                     Yamhill County, the application, county findings, order of conditional
                     approval and a request for Commission action shall be referred to the
                     Department of Land Conservation and Development.

             3.      Final Approval. An amendment conditionally approved by Yamhill County
                     shall not take effect until the county adopts an order or ordinance
                     authorizing final approval after receipt of written confirmation of the
                     county's conditional approval by the Land Conservation and Development
                     Commission.                               [Amended by Ord. 618 12/30/96]

      The above criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.5 below.

      Regarding criterion (A), applicable goals from the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land
      Use Plan, Section II.A.1, Goal reads:

             To conserve Yamhill County’s farm lands for the production of crops and livestock
             and to ensure that the conservation of farm land to urban use where necessary and
             appropriate occurs in an orderly and economical manner.

      The majority of the subject parcel is in forest use and would remain in forest use regardless
      of the proposed zone change. The proposed zone, F-80, would more accurately reflect the
      existing uses on the subject parcel. The applicant is not proposing an urban use; the
      minimum lot size is to remain 80 acres.

      Section ILA.2, Goal reads:

              To conserve Yamhill County's soil resources in a manner reflecting their suitability
             for forestry, agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the
                                                  Vol 100
                                                  2006

Docket PAZ-11-07
Page 5

             purposes designated on the county plan map.

      According to the Yamhill County Soil Survey, the parcels exhibit Class III, IV and VI soils.
       The requested zone change will continue to preserve the County’s soil resources for their
      suitability for forest use.

      Section II.B.1, Goal reads:

              To conserve and to manage efficiently the county’s forest and range resources,
              thereby ensuring a sustained yield of forest products, adequate grazing areas for
              domestic livestock, habitat for fish and wildlife, protection of forest soils and
             watershed, and preservation of recreational opportunities.

      The proposed zone change would conserve the county’s forest resources that currently exist
      on the property.

      Regarding criterion (B), as mentioned above, the subject parcels are currently in forest use;
      the plan amendment and zone change from an exclusive farm zone to a forestry zone would
      more accurately reflect the current use of the property.

      Regarding criterion (C), the subject parcels are contiguous with several hundred acres of
      property zoned F-80 and the parcels themselves comprise approximately 472 acres, well
      over the required 160 contiguous acres, therefore, the request is consistent with criterion
      (C).
      Regarding criteria (D), (E) and (F), these criteria are not applicable since the request does
      not include reducing the minimum lot size on the property. The applicant wishes to keep
      the minimum lot size at 80 acres.

CONCLUSIONS

1.    The request is for approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry
      Large Holding to Commercial Forestry; a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm use to
      F-80, Forestry. The total area proposed to be rezoned is approximately 472 acres.

      The plan amendment and zone change is appropriate to reflect the forest uses on the
      property.

      The request complies with the criteria listed in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County
      Zoning Ordinance and is consistent with the applicable goals found in Yamhill County’s
      Comprehensive Plan.

      The proposed designation is appropriate for the existing and intended use of the property.
                                                    Vol 100
                                                    2007

Docket PAZ-11-07
Page 6

Decision:

Based on the above findings and conclusions, the request by Catherine Wright representing David
Pratt for a plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to Commercial Forestry and
a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm use to F-80, Forestry on Tax Lots 5602-300, 301 and
302 is recommended is hereby approved.

                                                                                 B.0.04- 148