Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 701-1

This section and related information is available at www.co.yamhill.or.us/plan/planning/planning.asp

SECTION 700 B INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

701. RESOURCE INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (RI)  [Last amended 06/28/18; Ord. 906]

701.01 Purpose.

The purpose of the RI District is to accommodate the present foreseeable demand for food-packaging
and processing industries in areas close to the resources utilized, where high weight or bulk, low-
value, perishable produce must be transported short distances in short time to processing plants.  Such
uses shall be compatible with existing or projected urban development, and shall not require municipal
water supply, municipal sewage services, or other municipal services, and shall coordinate site and
building design through application of the site design review process.

701.02 Permitted Uses.

In the RI District, the following uses shall be permitted subject to the standards and limitations set
forth in subsection 701.07, and pursuant to Section 1101 for site design review:

A. Fruit, nut or vegetable packing, pro cessing, warehousing or cold storage operations;

B. Winery, including production and wholesale and re tail sale of wine, subject to the following:

1. A winery shall be permitted to conduct on-site marketing activities events such as
festivals and group tastings that are directly related to promotion and sale of the wine
produced on-site with an anticipated maximum of 750 daily visitors.  Only three such
events may be conducted in one calendar year, and the events shall not exceed a
duration of three days.  The frequency and duration of these events may be further
limited through site design review approval based on the adequacy of public facilities.

2. A winery shall be permitted to rent or lease facilities, with or without a fee, within or
adjacent to the winery for events such as parties, receptions, and banquets that are not
directly related to winery promotional activities, only at the frequency customary prior
to January 1, 1994.

3. The winery shall allow only the sale of:

(a) Wines produced in conjunction with the winery;

(b) Items directly related to wine, the sales of which are incidental to the retail
sale of wine on-site and do not exceed 25 percent of the total sales gross
receipts of the retail facility.  Such items include those served by a limited
service restaurant, as defined in ORS 624.010, and local agricultural products
commonly sold in conjunction with wine; and

(c) Wines not produced in conjunction with the winery, the sales of which are
incidental to the sale of wine produced on-site;
 [Amended 11/30/94; Ord. 582]

Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 701-2
C. Wholesale nursery;

D. Dwelling for caretaker or watchman in conjuncti on with a permitted use.  Site design review is
not required for the dwelling;
[Amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

E. Accessory uses;

F. Temporary structures as may be required duri ng construction of an authorized permanent
structure.  Such temporary structure shall be removed upon final inspection of the permanent
structure by the Building Inspector;

G. Operations conducted for the exploration of oil,  natural gas or geothermal resources, subject to
the requirements in subsection 404.10;

H. Community or municipal sewer system; and

I. Signs, pursuant to the sign provisions set forth in Section 1006.

 J. Accessory dwelling unit within an urban grow th boundary, subject to the standards in Section
1014. Site design review is not required for the accessory dwelling unit.
[Added 06/28/18; Ord.
906]

701.03 Conditional Uses.

In the RI District, pursuant to the Type B application procedure set forth in Section 1301, and subject
to the conditional use review criteria listed in Section 1202, and subject to Section 1101 for site design
review and any other applicable criteria established by this ordinance, the following uses may be
allowed conditionally:

A. Home occupation, subject to the standard s and limitations set forth in Section 1004;

B. Livestock packing, processing and warehousing;

C. Utility facility, subject to Section 1101 for site design review;
[Added 3/15/85; Ord. 408]

D. Rental or lease of facilities, with or without a fee, in conjunction with an agricultural use for
events such as parties, receptions, and banquets with the primary intent of indirect promotion
of the product harvested or processed on the site.  [Added 11/30/94; Ord. 582]

E. Four or more promotional events in a calendar y ear that are directly related to the marketing of
products harvested or processed on the site that are reasonably expected to attract more than
daily 750 visitors. [Added 11/30/94; Ord. 582]

701.04 Similar Uses.

Any use not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use in this district that is similar in
character, scale and performance to the permitted uses specified in subsection 701.02 may be allowed
as a similar use, subject to the provisions of Section 1206, and pursuant to the Type A application
procedure set forth in Section 1301.

Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 701 - 3

701.05 Prohibited Uses.

Uses of land and water not specifically mentioned in this section, and not allowed as a similar use, are
prohibited in the RI District.

701.06 Nonconforming Uses.

Nonconforming uses found in the RI District are subject to the nonconforming use provisions of
Section 1205 as well as to any other applicable provisions of this ordinance.

701.07 Standards and Limitations.

In the RI District, the following standards and limitations shall apply:

A. Dwelling Density.

1. Permitted Uses.

Not more than one (1) dwelling, as allowed for a caretaker or watchman in
conjunction with a permitted use, shall be allowed on any parcel.

2. Conditional Uses.

The maximum overall dwelling density for any dwelling allowed by conditional use
shall be established by the decision-making body subject to Section 1101 for site
design review.

B. Parcel Size and Dimension.

1. Minimum Parcel Size.

The minimum parcel size for any use shall be one (1) acre.

2. Depth-to-Width Ratio.

The maximum depth-to-width ratio for any newly-created parcel shall be 3:1.

C. Setbacks.

The minimum setback for all yards shall be thirty (30) feet for all uses, except as follows:

1. The minimum setback shall be five (5) feet for all yards for signs.

2. An accessory structure not more than fifteen (15) feet in height, at least sixty (60) feet
from a road, and at lease ten (10) feet from any dwelling may be located a minimum
distance of three (3) feet from the property line in a side yard or rear yard.

3. Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of
any yard, subject to the clear-vision area requirements of subsection 701.07 (F).

[Amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 701 - 4
D. Parcel Coverage.

The maximum parcel coverage shall be appropriate to the use, subject to Section 1101 for site
design review.

E. Access.

Before a dwelling may be established on any lot or parcel as provided in this section, the
parcel shall have a legal, safe and passable means of access by abutting at least twenty (20)
feet either directly upon a public road, or by a private easement which is at least thirty (30)
feet in width for its entire length and which also abuts upon a public road for at least thirty
(30) feet.  Nothing in this section shall be construed to vary or waive the requirements for
creation of new access contained in any Land Division Ordinance legally adopted by Yamhill
County.

F. Clear-Vision Areas.

A clear-vision area shall be maintained on the corner of any parcel at the intersection of any
two of the following: County roads, public roads, private roads serving four or more parcels;
and railroads.  A clear-vision area shall contain no sight-obscuring structures or plantings
exceeding thirty (30) inches in height within a triangle formed by the lot corner nearest the
intersection, and the two points twenty (20) feet from this corner as measured along the parcel
lines adjacent to the intersecting rights-of-way.  Trees exceeding this height may be located
such that their branches extend into this triangle, provided they are maintained to allow at least
twelve (12) feet of visual clearance within the triangle below the lowest hanging branches.

G. Height.

1. The maximum building height for any dw elling shall be thirty-five (35) feet;

2. The maximum building height for all other st ructures shall be forty-five (45) feet; and

3. Appurtenances usually required to be placed  above the roof level and not intended for
human occupancy such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys and wind generators are not subject to the height limitations of this
ordinance.

H. Off-street Parking.

Off-street parking and loading requirements for any use in the RI District shall be as provided
in Section 1007.