ae ofl 78 ' vce                    465
                                                                   ‘od        «(JANNN 1D   Po   4.        0   0   O41   4 9g
                                                                    04

                  IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                       FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                             SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from                     )
Very Low Density Residential to Industrial;                              )
a zone change from VLDR 2.5 to LI Light Industrial,                      ) ORDINANCE 733
Tax Lot 4411-905, located at 3200 NE Lone Oak Road,                      )
applicants Duane and Diane Sharer, Docket No. PAZ-04-03                  )

         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on January 15, 2004, Commissioners Kathy George, Mary P.
Stern, and Leslie Lewis being present.

        IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Duane and Diane Sharer applied to the Department
of Planning for a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Very Low Density Residential to Industrial; a
zone change from VLDR 2.5 to LI Light Industrial in order to allow expansion of an existing mini-
storage business. A public hearing was before the Planning Commission which voted unanimously to
forward the application for consideration by the Board without a recommendation for approval or denial.
The Board held a duly noticed public hearing on December 11, 2003, continued until December 23,
2003, and the Board voted 2-1 to approve the application (Commissioner Stern in the minority), and
directed staff to prepare the necessary findings; NOW,     THEREFORE,

        IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD that the application is approved as detailed in
the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated. A map is
attached as Exhibit “B”.

             DONE this 15" day of January, 2004, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                                      YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                    act        her
                                            Chair           ) KATHY
                                                              vo IRGE
                                                       My D      Ste

                                            Commissioner       MARY          P. STERN

APPROVE sDiAg.6 FORM:                               Nal io hk hn
   74         ;          7                  Commissioner        FESLIE LEWIS
     iA    fi Ln’
Rick Sanai
Assistant County Counsel
F:\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03,wpd

                                                                                                     OrRowance 7S
                                                                                                     Bo   o¥-
                                                                                               run 18 ce 4b€
Findings for Approval - Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)                                                    000 143
Page 2

                                                                                          Ordinance 733

DOCKET NO.:                                 PAZ-04-03

REQUEST:                                    Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Very Low
                                            Density Residential to Industrial; a zone change from VLDR 2.5 to LI
                                            Light Industrial in order to allow expansion of a mini-storage business.

APPLICANT:                                  Duane and Diane Sharer

TAX LOT:                                    4411-905

LOCATION:                                   3200 NE Lone Oak Road

CRITERIA:                                   Sections 702, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

FINDINGS:

A.            Background Facts:

1.            Lot Size: Approximately 3.85 acres

2,            Access:          Lone Oak Road

3.            On-Site Land Use: The adjacent tax lot contains a residence. The subject tax lot contains
              outbuildings associated with the storage business. A site map showing the configuration of the
              lot and storage buildings is attached with the application.

4.            Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: Adjacent properties are zoned VLDR 2.5. The area is
              characterized by rural residential uses. Across the State Highway to the west is an area zoned
              Neighborhood Commercial that contains commercial uses. Across the State Highway to the
              southeast is an area of property zoned LI Light Industrial.

5.            Water:         Provided by an on-site well.

6.            Sewage Disposal: An on-site septic system.

7.            Fire Protection: McMinnville Rural Fire District

8.            Taxes: Farm Deferral

F:A\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd

                                                                                                       ORDIWANCE ISS
                                                                                                       0.    04-4 /
                                                                                              en    (8 race 407
                                                                                                     000144
Findings for Approval - Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)
Page 3

9.           Previous Related Actions: The applicant received approval of a conditional use for a home
             occupation to allow storage of recreational vehicles inside of an accessory building.         That
             request was approved in 1994 under Docket C-17-94. In 1998 the Planning Commission
             reviewed Docket C-07-98/V-10-99, a request to modify a previous home occupation
             approval to allow up to 46,000 square feet of additional storage and to vary from the 10%
             parcel coverage standard. The Planning Commission denied this request.

10.          The request is simply to approve a plan amendment from Very Low Density Residential to
             Industrial and a zone change from VLDR 2.5 to LI Light Industrial. The purpose of the request
             is to allow expansion of a mini-storage business. The request does not include a site design
             review with specifics of the mini-storage expansion.

11.          Exception: This property was part of code area 4.5 (St.         Joe’s) which was adopted in
             Exceptions Statement II on April 23, 1980.

B.           Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

1.           The Plan Amendment portion of the request is not subject to local review criteria, but is subject
             to ORS and OAR criteria.

2.           The zone change portion of the request complies with the standards and criteria in YCZO
             Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

             (A)          The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
                          applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

             (B)          There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                          requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
                          economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy,
                          and the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for
                          the uses allowed by the zone.

             (CQ) _ The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
                          density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                          occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability
                          of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                          district.

             (D)          Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
                          unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
                          other factors.

F.\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03,wpd
                                                                                              rin (8 vce 48
                                                                                                  000145
Findings for Approval - Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)
Page 4

             (E)      — The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
                        exceptions, if applicable.

3h          Regarding criterion (A) above, since an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3 and 4 has
             already been taken for the subject parcel, Comprehensive Plan goals and policies related to
             agricultural and forest lands are not applicable. (Regardless of whether or not a “reasons”
             exception is approved, as explained further in section C of this report, the parcel still has an
             acknowledged “committed” exception to Goals 3 and 4 so it is not subject to requirements for
             protection of farm and forest land.) Other Plan goals and policies which may be pertinent are:

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy L.F.1.b. Yamhill County will
             encourage economic development projects which do not conflict with the predominant
             timber and agricultural character of the county.

             The applicant stated that this use has co-existed with surrounding agricultural uses for the past
             eight years with no adverse impacts. Our staff does not know of any complaints from farm
             operators regarding the use of this storage facility.

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy B.1.c. All proposed rural area
             development and facilities:

                          1)     Shall be appropriately, if not uniquely, suited to the area or site proposed
                         for development;

                          2)      Shall not be located in any natural hazard area, such as a floodplain or
                          area of geologic hazard, steep slope, severe drainage problems or soil limitations
                         for building or sub-surface sewage disposal, if relevant;

                          3)      Shall be furnished with adequate access and an adequate individual or
                         community water supply, if required; and shall not be justified solely or even
                         primarily on the argument that the land is less costly than alternative better sites
                         or that federal or state aid is available in the form of subsidized water supply or
                          sewerage extensions from nearby urban centers.

             The above policy was adequately addressed by the applicant on Page 10 of the application.

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.B.1.d. No proposed rural area
             development shall require or substantially influence the extension of costly services and
            facilities normally associated with urban centers, such as municipal water supply and
            sanitary sewerage or power, gas and telephone services, nor shall it impose inordinate

F:\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd
                                                                                          FILN ‘18 race 40
                                                                                                 000146
Findings for Approval - Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)
Page 5

             additional net costs on mobile, centralized public services, such as police and fire
            protection, school busing or refuse collection.

             The above policy was adequately addressed by the applicant on Page 11 of the application,
             which is hereby incorporated into the Findings in its entirety by this reference.

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LH.1.b, To the greatest extent
            possible, industrial areas will be located within urban growth boundaries. Those
             industrial areas located outside urban growth boundaries will be compatible with the
             industrial development goal and will be located where they can be adequately served by
             necessary major utility lines, including electric power substations and transmission lines,
             trunk sewer lines, trunk water lines, and where appropriate, trunk gas lines.

             Notice of this request was sent to the City of McMinnville.    The City staff had the opportunity
             to voice objection if rezoning this area will conflict with their goal and the county’s goal of
             keeping industrial areas within the UGB but voiced no opposition.

             This industrial use does not need the extension of utility lines in order to serve the use.

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LH.1.c, Industrial uses which are
             incompatible with surrounding residential or commercial development and cannot bear
             the cost of abating their incompatible characteristics, whether related to performance or
             appearance, will be encouraged to locate or relocate only within urban centers, where
             contact with residential development is, or will be at a minimum, and where all required
             services are immediately available.

             This type of industrial use is very low impact. It does not generate noise, vibration, glare,
             fumes, odor, electrical interference or other disturbance beyond what normally occurs in the
             applicable zoning district. The only significant impact is the visual impact of the storage facility
             on adjacent property.   Some of this could be addressed by appropriate landscaping during the
             site design review process.

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LH.1.f, The county will develop
             appropriate performance, design and specification standards and requirements for all
             existing and possible future industrial uses to guide their location or relocation in the
             county and within existing industrial areas of the county.

             The County has developed design standards which would be applied at the time the applicant
             applies for the Site Design Review. One area of concern is the parcel coverage standard of the
             LI Light Industrial Zone is 30 percent. In Docket C-07-98/V-10-98, the applicant requested
             to add 46,000 sq. ft. of building area, which raised their parcel coverage to more than 40%.

F:\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd
                                                                                        run (3 ince 470
                                                                                                           tr

Findings for Approval - Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)                                             U 0 0 1 4 (
Page 6

            Near the bottom of page 1 of the request the applicant states that after approval of this request
            and the “. .. subsequent site design review application would allow the applicant’s to construct
            three (3) additional storage buildings on the property. This would effectively double the size of
            the existing business.” The concern is that the size of building the applicant desires to construct
            will also require a variance to the design standards. That matter is not under review in this
            application.

             Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LH.1.I, Industrial development will
            utilize the transportation system in an efficient and safe manner and reduce energy
            consumption by identifying for industrial development areas with alternative
            transportation opportunities, and by locating employment opportunities close to public
            transportation and, where appropriate, in community areas.

            Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy .H.1.n The county will recognize and
            encourage small scale industries as viable alternatives to larger, conventional
            enterprises.

            The applicant has addressed these policies on page 12 of the application, which is hereby
            incorporated into the Findings in its entirety by this reference.

4.          Regarding the need for the proposed use, criterion (B), the applicant’s representative Mark
            Fancy testified he logged phone calls received from April 10, 2003 to July 30, 2003. The calls
            illustrate the types of requests the applicant receives and this illustrates there is a need for this
            type of storage facility in the area. As for the availability and suitability of other LI zoned lands,
            this will be discussed in Finding B.6.

5.          Regarding criterion (C), the surrounding land uses are a combination of small scale farm uses
            and rural residences. With regard to utility needs, the proposed use would not have any
            significant needs to expand the utility services. The existing facility, as proposed, would not
            require any additional utilities and services than already exist in the area or that could be
            provided by a private well and septic system.

6.          Regarding criteria (D), the applicant submitted an analysis of other lands that are plan designed
            and zoned LI Light Industrial. The applicant evaluated Light Industrial properties within the
            County. The applicant focused on those that has less than $5,000 assessed value of
            improvements. The study then looked at each of those sites within the County to determine
            which ones might be suitable for development of a storage facility. Those findings are found on
            pages 6-9 of the application. Our Department believes the survey was a reasonable approach
            and the findings on the specific sites were adequate to eliminate them from consideration.
cE          Exception requirements, criterion (E), are addressed in section C of this report.

FAUsers\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd
                                                                                          en “(8 ce 473.
                                                                                                     000148
Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)
Page 7

c.           Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis

             In the past Yamhill County has made the following arguments regarding “committed”
             exceptions:
                           Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-04 contains requirements for taking goal
                           exceptions. This area was approved for a “committed” exception in 1980, based
                          on the number of small contiguous parcels and the existing rural residential
                          development pattern. The area was zoned AF-10 allowing for rural residential
                          development. The Board of Commissioners has previously found that a new
                          exception is not required because a “committed exception” to Goals 3 and 4,
                          adopted prior to 1986, did not limit the future use of the exception area. This is
                          because the “committed exception” was taken before the effective date of the
                          rule (3/20/86). Therefore, no additional goal exception is required.

             DLCD has previously argued that even if a committed exception is taken that additional
             exceptions are still necessary to approve a plan amendment/zone change.             DLCD has
             submitted a letter stating that an exception to Goal 14 is necessary or the use would need to be
             limited to less than that which is allowed in an unincorporated community. Land within an
             unincorporated community is limited to buildings less than 40,000 square in area in order to be
             considered an appropriate use for the community. There is no guidance given as to what limit
             of square footage would prevent rural property from being viewed as an urban scale of use. If
             the applicant later requests to expand the use beyond what is allowed in an unincorporated
             community, then a Goal 14 exception would be appropriate at that time.

             Limited Use Overlay Provisions
iy

             The purpose of the Limited Use Overlay District is to limit permitted use(s) and activities in a
             specific location to only those uses and activities which are justified and approved through
             Comprehensive Plan Amendments and/or zone changes. The approval of this application is
             based on the use being a storage facility. The limited use overlay zone limits the use to mini-
             storage/recreational vehicle storage.

             Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis
i=

             The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must be addressed.
             OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

             (1)          Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land
                          use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure

F:\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd
                                                                                       cun (8 ace 472
Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)
                                                                                                “000149
Page 8

                         that allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and
                         level of service of the facility. This shall be accomplished by either:
                         (a)      Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                                  capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;
                         (b)     Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                                 facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                                  requirements of this division; or,
                         (o)      Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                                  demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

            (2)          Aplan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
                        facility if it:
                         (a)      Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
                                  transportation facility;
                         (b)      Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
                         (c)      Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or
                                  access which are inconsistent with the functional classification of a
                                  transportation facility; or
                         (d)      Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                                  acceptable level identified in the TSP.

2.          Regarding (1) and (2), the request is to allow a plan/amendment zone change. Page 3 of the
            application explains what the applicant believes the anticipated trip generation would be from
            this type of facility. The figures are based on the standard trip generation manual from the
            Institute of Transportation Engineers. The applicant submitted portions of this manual with the
            application. The trips from similar uses varied from 17 to 194 vehicle trips per day. Even
            taking the high of 194 vehicle trips per day, it appears the use would be consistent with the level
            of service of the transportation facility. Therefore, the request complies with the
            Transportation Planning Rule.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.          The request for a Plan amendment from VLDR Very Low Density Residential to I Industrial
            and a zone change from VLDR 2.5 to LI Light Industrial is hereby approved.

2.          The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies. There
            are no other lands that would be available to site a storage facility. With conditions, the storage
            facility would be compatible with surrounding agricultural and residential uses.

FAUsers\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd
                                                                                      run (8 race. 4/2
Docket PAZ-04-03 (Sharer)                                                                      0 0 0 1 5 0
Page 9                                                                                                            |

3%           Since this area was a committed exception, no other exception is needed.      In addition, since
             this request did not include site design review for expansion, no Goal 14 exception is needed.
             If the applicant requests to expand the use beyond what is allowed in an unincorporated
             community, then a Goal 14 exception would be appropriate at that time.                               |

4.           The applicant has demonstrated that there is a need for the use which other lands in the
             unincorporated area would not be able to satisfy.

5.           The applicant has demonstrated that the level of anticipated traffic will not overburden the local   |
             roads.                                                                                               |

DECISION:

The request by Diane and Duane Sharer, for a plan amendment and zone change from VLDR 2.5 Very
Low Density Residential to LI Light Industrial on Tax Lot 4411-905 is hereby approved, subject to a
limited use overlay zone with the following restrictions:

Ls           Uses shall be limited to mini-storage and the storage of personal property and vehicles,
             including boats and recreational vehicles.

2.           Any expansion of the use must be shown to be consistent with Goal 14 or have an exception
             taken to Goal 14.

                                                                  F.\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd

                                                                                         ORO    whuce      FEZ
F:\Users\sanair\LU\PAZ04-03.wpd
                                                                                         B.0.0%-      ¥Y
                                                          rin     (8 ince 47/4
                                                                  COOLS.
               EXHIBIT “B” MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO, 733
                 PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZONE CHANGE
     ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                           JANUARY 15, 2004
           FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
         VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO INDUSTRIAL AND
               TO CHANGE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FROM
                VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL VLDR 2.5
                                 TO
                            LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL

CHANGE APPLIES TO THE SHADED PORTION OF TAX LOT 4411-905 DESCRIBED ABOVE
APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 200 FEET                         B.0.04-4/
                                                                ORDINANCE   TSS