ik 63 me 302

            IN THE BOARD         OF COMMISSIONERS                  OF THE STATE OF; OREGON            a
                                                                                     i    eee         ite

                                 FOR THE COUNTY              OF YAMHILL

                 SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY                           BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the
Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974)
Map from "EF" (Exclusive Farm Use) to

                                                          Oe
"VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential) and
Amending the Official Zoning Map from
"EF-20" (Exclusive Farm Use/20 Acres) to                               ORDINANCE 637
"VLDR-2.5" (Very Low Density Residential/

                                                          ae Oe
2.5 acre minimum) on a 3 Acre Portion of
a Parcel Known as Tax Lot 2423CD-100;
Taking an Exception to Statewide Goal 3;                  ee
Approving a Conditional Use for an
                                                          eee

Extraterritorial Service Connection to Allow
a Water Hook-up; Applicant Cathy Adams;
                                                          Ne

Docket PAZ-04-97,       C-14-97, and Declaring
                                                          Nee Ne

an Emergency.

        THE BOARD      OF COMMISSIONERS         OF YAMHILL           COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for the
transaction of county business in special session on October 23, 1997,Commissioners      Thomas E. E. Bunn,
Ted Lopuszynski, and Robert Johnstone being present.

          WHEREAS, on April 10, 1997, the Department of Planning and Development received an application
by Cathy Adams ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-04-97, C-14-97, to change the Comprehensive Plan
(1974) Map from "EF" (Exclusive Farm Use) to "VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential) and amending
the Official Zoning Map from "EF-20” (Exclusive Farm Use/20 Acres) to "VLDR-2.5" (Very Low Density
Residential/2.5 acre minimum) and to approve a conditional use for an extraterritorial service connection
to allow a water hook-up, and to take an exception to Statewide Goal 3 on a three (3) acre portion of a
parcel known as Tax Lot 2423CD-100; and

        WHEREAS, on September 11, 1997, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider the
application and thereafter voted 6-1 to deny the request; and

         WHEREAS, on October 9, 1997, the Board held a public hearing on the application, and following
the close of the hearing, voted 2 to | to tentatively approve the application for the plan amendment and zone
change, to approve the conditional use, and to take an exception to statewide Goal 3; and

         WHEREAS, the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by
this reference provide justification for approval of the application for the amendment to the Yamhill County

                                                                                    a

                                                                                           , ORDINANCE 637
                                                                                          Eo   F779   t Page 1
                                                                                       rua 63 nce 303
Comprehensive Plan Map and Official Zoning Map, and that approval thereof is in the best interests of the
citizens of Yamhill County;   Now Therefore,

         THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS                                 AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.        The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Map (1974), as amended, is hereby
amended to reflect a plan designation of "VLDR"on a three (3) acre portion of a parcel known as Tax Lot
2423CD-100 and more particularly shown on the map attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit
"Be

         Section 2.       The Official Zoning Map, as amended, is hereby amended as specified in the attached
Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning designation of "VLDR-2.5" (Very Low Density Residential/2.5 acre) on a
three (3) acre portion of a parcel known as Tax Lot 2423CD-100 and more particularly shown on the map
attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "B."

         Section 3.      A conditional use is approved for an extraterritorial service connection to allow
a water hook-up from the LA Water Coop,        subject to the following condition:

         Permits from the county Public Works Department shall be obtained prior to any digging or
         installation of water lines within the county road right-of-way.

        Section 4,       In adopting the plan amendment specified in Section 1, the County hereby takes an
exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3.

        Section 5.        The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference are hereby
adopted in support of this ordinance.

          Section 6.       Emergency Clause. This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

         DONE at McMinnville, Oregon this 23rd day of October, 1997.

ATTEST                                     YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                             There
                                           Chairman
                                                                         CE. Baron —
                                                                        THOMAS E. E. BUNN

                                                 lech
                                               ——

                                           Commissioner           (/ TEDA/OPUSZYNSKI

JOHN C. PINKSTAAY
                                                bat aOdie
                                           Commissioner
                                                      ROBERT JOHNSTONE
Assistant County Counsel                            Agoapted by       Yamhill County
                                                                  a

                                                    Board af Commissioners on
H:\ADMIN\PINKSTJ\LU\paz04-97
                          002
                                                  Ch        FTG
                                                          ete          by Board Order
                                                      gLL TL.
                                                                                               ORDINANCE 637
                                                                                                         Page 2
                                                                           ix 63 ace 304
                                      ORDINANCE 637

                                        EXHIBIT "A"

PLANNING COMMISSION'S DENIAL:                 September 11, 1997

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS' APPROVAL:                    October 23, 1997

DOCKET:                      PAZ-04-97, C-14-97

REQUEST:                     Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from "EF"
                             (Exclusive Farm Use) to "VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential)
                             and zone change from EF-20 to Very Low Density Residential,
                             VLDR-2.5; an Exception to Statewide Planning Goals; and
                             conditional use approval for an extraterritorial service connection to
                             allow a water hook-up from the LA Water Co-op.

APPLICANT:                   Cathy Adams.

OWNER:                       Laura Johnson.

TAX LOT:                     A 3-acre portion of 2423CD-100, including lots 213 through 217 of
                             F.C, Grahams Cove Orchards.

LOCATION:                    Between Highway 47, Cove Orchard Road, Beaver Street and
                             Bremmer Street at the northern end of Cove Orchard.

REVIEW CRITERIA:             Sections 1202 and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance;
                             the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan; OAR 660-04, Exception
                             Process; the LA Water Cooperative-Yamhill            County   Service
                             Boundary Management Agreement.

FINDINGS:

A.     Background Facts:

1.      Property size: Lots 213 - 217, the area of the proposed zone change, is about 3 acres in
size, including roads. The entire tax lot is 12.3 acres.

2.      On-site Land Use: Lots 213 - 217, which is part of a 14 acre tract (including Tax Lot
2423CD-200) is mostly in pasture and grass. A creek runs through the tract near the northern
property line.

                                                                                Exhibit "A"- Page 1
                                                                                     Ordinance 637
                                                                              a 63 nce SUS
3.       Surrounding Land Use: The Cove Orchard community is located on both sides of Highway
47, in a narrow valley with forested hillsides on both sides. The area just southwest of the subject
lots is broken up into small lots, part of the original F.C. Grahams Cove Orchard subdivision.
There are two churches, a store, and a couple dozen residences in this area, The remainder of the
surrounding area to the north and east consists of larger parcels, from around 5 to 30 acres in size,
which are in forestry use on the hillsides and limited agricultural uses in the valley. There is a
dwelling on Tax Lot 2423CD-200 adjacent to the subject site.

4.     Surrounding Zoning: Zoning to the southwest, across Bremmer Street, is VLDR-2.5.
Zoning to the north is EF-20.     Zoning to the southeast, on the opposite side of Cove Orchard
Road, is AF-20.

5.     Water: The lots are within the boundaries of the Cove Orchard Water Association, which
does not have any new hook-ups available.          This application includes a request for an
extraterritorial service connection to allow a hook-up to the LA Water Co-op line which runs
along Cove Orchard Road.

6.     Sewage Disposal: Cove Orchard Sewer District.      The applicant indicates that the property
owner has a reserved hook-up.

7.     Fire Protection: Yamhill Rural Fire District.

8.      Soils: Sheet 8 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the parcel is composed
primarily of Chehalem soils (CeC), with Willakenzie soils (WkD) adjacent to Cove Orchard Road.
These soils are Class III and IV respectively, and are both high-value farmland.

9.     Taxes: Farm deferral.

10.     Previous Actions: None on the subject property, Tax Lot 2423CD-100. A non-farm
dwelling was approved on the adjacent lots 53 and 54 of 2423CC-200 in 1989 (Docket C-60-89).

B.     Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

1.      Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards
and criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

        (A}    The proposed     change   is consistent with the goals, policies,     and    any   other
               applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

        (B)    There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
               requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
               economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
               the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
               uses allowed by the zone.

                                                                                   Exhibit "A'"'- Page 2
                                                                                        Ordinance 637
                                                                                 aux 63 ve; 306
         (CE)    The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
                 density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                 occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
                 utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                 district.

         (D)    — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
                  unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
                  other factors.

         (E}      The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
                  exceptions, if applicable.

 2.      YCZO 1202.08 (A).          The following Plan goals and policies may be pertinent:

        Policy [.B.1.c.: All proposed rural area development and facilities: ...(2) Shall not be
        located in any natural hazard area, such as a floodplain or area of geologic hazard, steep
        slope, severe drainage problems or soil limitations for building or sub-surface sewage
         disposal, if relevant;

         The Board finds that this policy is satisfied. All of lot 213 and the western half of lots 214
 - 217 are within the 100 year floodplain, as shown on FIRM 410249 0050 C, 0131 C, and 0135
  C. There are no steep slopes. The Chehalem soils in the floodplain area are described in the Soil
- Survey as having severe limitations for septic fields, but since the area is within the Cove Orchard
  Sewer District this is not an issue.

         Policy I.B.1.d.: No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially
         influence the extension of costly services and facilities normally associated with urban
         centers, such as municipal water supply and sanitary sewerage or power, gas and
         telephone     services,   nor   shall   it impose   inordinate   additional   net   costs   on   mobile,
         centralized public services, such as police and fire protection, school busing or refuse
         collection.

         The Board finds that this policy is satisfied.    The proposed zone change would not require
 the extension of utilities, since sewer service is already available and an LA Water Co-op line runs
 along Cove Orchard Road, although the development would rely on these services since on-site
 wells and septic systems are probably not a viable option. Other services such as electricity,
 telephone, sheriff and fire protection already serve the area.

         Policy 1.B.2.a.: Yamhill County will continue to recognize that the appropriate location
         of very low density residential development is in designated large areas where commitments
         to such uses have already been made through existing subdivision, partitioning, or
         development and by virtue of close proximity to existing urban centers; or in small, limited
         areas having unique scenic, locational and other suitable site qualities where the
         anticipated magnitude or density of development is not such as to require more than a very

                                                                                             Exhibit "A"- Page 3
                                                                                                   Ordinance 637
                                                                              Fin O38 ice 307

        basic level of services, such as single local-road access, individual domestic wells and
        sewage-disposal systems, and possible rural fire protection.

         The Board finds that this policy is satisfied. The F.C. Grahams Cove Orchard subdivision
was platted in the early 1900s, and covers more than a one square mile area, The subdivision
itself does not commit the area to residential use, since the resource zoning on much of the area
would limit development. However, the area is committed to residential development insofar as
the parcel is included within the Cove Orchard Sewer District and within the Cove Orchard Water
Association.   The subject lots are adjacent to the developed Cove Orchard area, where the zoning
is VLDR.

       Policy H.A.1.h.: No proposed rural area development shall substantially impair or conflict
       with the use of farm or forest land, or be justified solely or even primarily on the argument
       that the land is unsuitable for farming or forestry or, due to ownership, is not currently
       part of an economic farming or forestry enterprise.

        The Board finds that this policy is satisfied. The proposed zone change would cause little
interference with the use of other farm and forest land in the vicinity. There is a buffer area
including Cove Orchard Road between the subject lots and the forested hillsides. Agricultural land
to the north is limited to a smail area between the highway and Cove Orchard Road, and farm uses
in this area have been limited to grazing in the past due to seasonal flooding.        Much of the
applicant’s argument for the zone change is based on the area being unsuitable for farming due to
flooding. Policy II.A.1.h. states that this argument cannot be used as justification for rezoning
the lots.

3,      YCZO     1202.08 (B). The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for the
particular uses allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the
citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by
the zone, as required by YCZO 1202.08 (B).

3.1     The applicant’s justification of need focuses on the inability of the parcel to meet the
$80,000 income test that is a requirement for approval of a dwelling in the EF district. She states:
“Tn order to allow a residence on this lot and put the owner’s existing sewer hook up to use, a
zone change is needed.” Criterion (B) requires an analysis of the overall need for additional
residential land in the Cove Orchard area, not just the applicant’s individual desire to construct
an additional residence.

3.2      Analysis of address maps shows that there are 66 lots in the Cove Orchard area that are
currently zoned VLDR, with an additional 19 lots zoned AF-10. Both zones allow single family
residences. Of these 85 lots, 47 are undeveloped. Many of the vacant lots are only 25’ or 30’
wide, so are too small to be developed individually. However, several could be combined into
reasonably sized residential lots, resulting in approximately 20 vacant residential lots in the area.
The proposed zone change would add 5 additional lots dots 213, 214, 215, 216 and 217) because
the lots created by the old subdivision are recognized and now will become developable even if

                                                                                  Exhibit "A"- Page 4
                                                                                       Ordinance 637
                                                                               rin 63 ace 3O8
they are smaller than the VLDR 2.5 minimum lot size.               The Board    finds that there is a
demonstrable need for these 5 additional residential lots.

3.3.     Testimony was received from the applicant that there is a market demand for residential
lots in the Cove Orchard area, although the lack of water has likely hampered the marketability
of vacant lots. Rezoning to allow additional residential lots is unlikely to be of any importance
to the citizenry or the economy of the area.

4.       YCZO 1202.08. (C). The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering
the surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which
may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district, and
therefore complies with YCZO 1202.08. (C).

4.1     The surrounding land uses are small residential lots to the southwest, in the Cove Orchard
community, and larger parcels in farm and forest uses elsewhere. The proposed change is
appropriate since it would simply extend the existing Cove Orchard residential area to the north,
within the bounds of Cove Orchard. Road and the highway.

4.2      One change that has occurred in the area was a plan amendment/zone change and goal
exception in 1995 that designated approximately 6 acres on the east side of Highway 47 as VLDR-
2.5. This rezoned area is adjacent to the subject property, on the opposite side of Bremmer Street.
The area is made up of small lots under separate ownerships, and almost all of the lots were
developed, so the exception was based on the area being both physically developed and committed
to residential uses. The subject property was not included in this zone change because of the large
parcel size and lack of development. The subject property is similar in character to the rezoned
area in that it is located between Cove Orchard Road and the highway and is part of the F.C.
Grahams Cove Orchard subdivision.

4.3      Regarding the availability of utilities and services in the area, the lots are within the Cove
Orchard Sewer Service District (COSSD, which is a county sewer service district formed pursuant
to ORS 451), and the applicant has indicated that the owner has one reserved sewer hook-up.
COSSD has a current maximum service capacity of approximately 50 hookups (with the possibility
that COSSD may determine there are more available hookups in the future), and there are
currently about 42 properties which have hookups or reserved hookups, leaving 8 additional sewer
hook-ups currently available.

        The lots are also within the Cove Orchard Water Association (COWA) boundary.               The
COWA system is currently at full capacity, so does not have any new water hook-ups available,
and there is no known concrete time frame when the system might be expanded to allow new
service hook-ups.     Consequently, the applicants have applied for an extraterritorial service
connection to allow a hook-up to the LA Water Cooperative line which runs along Cove Orchard
Road. A letter dated July 22, 1997 from the LA Water Cooperative to Laura Johnson states that
she has received approval for water service, contingent upon receiving county approval for the
extraterritorial service connection. The approval is for one hook-up. If the zone change is
approved, there would be the potential for five other building sites. There is no evidence whether

                                                                                    Exhibit "A"- Page 5
                                                                                          Ordinance 637
                                                                              run OS race 309
LA Water would be able to provide water to these other lots. Other utilities and services, such
as fire protection, power and roads, are available to the site.

5.      YCZO    1202.08)     The Board finds that other lands in the county already designated for
the proposed uses are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to
location, size, or other factors, as required by YCZO      1202.08(D).

5.1     As stated in Finding B.3 there are approximately 20 vacant residential parcels in Cove
Orchard. It is likely that the inability to get water has limited the marketability of lots in the area.
In this respect, the subject property is more suited than many of the lots because it is adjacent to
Cove Orchard Road, where there is an LA Water Co-op line. Lot 213 and the northern half of
lots 214 - 217 are within the 100 year floodplain. While development is not prohibited in the
floodplain, it makes the lots less suitable for residential use than many of the other VLDR lots in
the area.

6.      YCZO 1202.08(E). Regarding criterion (E), an exception to Goal 3 is addressed in section
C of these findings below.

Cc.     Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis.

1.      Oregon Administrative      Rule   (OAR)   660-04   contains   the requirements   for taking an
exception to the statewide planning goals.    The applicant has indicated that they are applying for
a “committed” exception.

2.      OAR    660-04-028 indicates that      a committed exception may be taken when land is
irrevocably committed to uses not allowed by the applicable goal because existing adjacent uses
and other relevant factors make uses allowed by the goal impracticable. A two part analysis is
required. First, whether land is irrevocably committed depends on the relationship between the
exception area and the lands adjacent to it. Findings must address the characteristics of the
exception area; the characteristics of the adjacent lands; the relationship between the exception
area and the lands adjacent to it; and the other relevant factors set forth in OAR 660-04-028(6).
Second, for an exception to Goal 3, findings must be made that farm uses are impracticable on the
proposed exception area.

3.      The proposed exception area is about 3 acres in size, and is part of a 12.3 acre tax lot and
a 14 acre tract under the same ownership.    The exception area is bounded by Cove Orchard Road.
and Highway 47.     A creek runs near the northern lot line, and the associated floodplain covers
more than half of the parcel. The parcel is mostly in grass, with some trees and brush near Cove
Orchard Road.

4.      The area surrounding the proposed exception area consists of small lots to the west, zoned
VLDR-2.5.     This area is the Cove Orchard community, which contains two churches, a store, and
several dozen residences located on both sides of Highway 47. The area to the north and east of
the proposed exception area consists of larger lots, most about 5 to 30 acres in size, which are
used for farming on the valley floor or forestry uses on the hillsides.

                                                                                     Exhibit "A"- Page 6
                                                                                           Ordinance 637
                                                                         run 63 vce 310
5,       The proposed exception area is similar in character to the adjacent lands that are zoned EF
and AF, because it is part of a 14 acre tract which has been used for some farming in the past.
It is not similar in character to the adjacent VLDR-zoned area, which is made up of small,
developed lots under separate ownerships.

6,       OAR 660-04-028(6) requires that findings for a committed exception address: existing
adjacent uses; existing public facilities and services (water and sewer lines, etc.); parcel size and
ownership patterns of the exception area and adjacent lands; neighborhood and regional
characteristics; natural or man-made features or other impediments separating the exception area
from adjacent resource land; physical development; and other relevant factors. There are no
natural features separating the proposed exception area from adjacent resource land. Cove
Orchard Road may be considered a man-made feature separating the fots from the forest land
across the road.   The other factors have been addressed elsewhere in these findings.

7.      The applicant states that the F.C. Grahams Cove Orchard subdivision “has committed the
development of this property and the entire area into a use other than farm/forest”. OAR 660-04-
028(6)(c)(A) states in part: Past land divisions made without application of the Goals do not in
themselves demonstrate irrevocable commitment of the exception area.      Only if development (e.g.,
physical improvements such as roads and underground facilities) on the resulting parcels or other
factors make unsuitable their resource use or the resource use of nearby lands can the parcels be
considered to be irrevocably committed. OAR 660-04-028(6)(c)(B) also states, in part: The mere
fact that small parcels exist does not in itself constitute irrevocable commitment. Small parcels
in separate ownerships are more likely to be irrevocable committed if the parcels are developed,
clustered in a large group or clustered around a road designed to serve these parcels.

7.1    The Board finds that there are a substantial number of small parcels in separate ownerships
which are developed and clustered around a road designed to serve these parcels. The Board finds
that this, coupled with the physical improvements in the area includes Cove Orchard Road, the
abandoned Southern Pacific Rail line, and sewer and water lines along the road,      make the nearby
subject site unsuitable for resource use. Given that there are 88 lots in the immediate area (66
lots in the adjacent VLDR-2.5 zone to the southwest, 19 lots in the AF-10 zone to the southeast)
with 41 lots already developed, taken together with the physical improvements such as roads and
sewer and water service adjacent to the site, the Board finds that the subject site is part of a larger
area which is irrevocably committed to nonresource use.

8.      The OAR     allows consideration of other factors which may make farm use on the lots
impracticable. The applicant states that there are limitations to farm use because of the creek and
associated high water table in the floodplain. Erosion problems are also cited by the applicant,
although the Soil Survey indicates that slopes are only 3 - 12% and “erosion is a slight to moderate
hazard in unprotected areas during rainy periods”. The Soil Survey also states that “tilth is
moderately good, but cultivation is restricted by seepage during winter and early in spring.” The
Board finds that these limitations make farming impracticable, and that the characteristics of the
area make the lots irrevocably committed to residential use.

                                                                                    Exhibit "A"- Page 7
                                                                                         Ordinance 637
                                                                               rit O8 re S44

D.      Service Boundary Management Agreement Provisions and Analysis

1.       Section TII.G.2. of the LA Water Cooperative - Yamhill County Service Boundary
Management Agreement (hereafter "LA Water Boundary Agreement") contains the policy for new
extraterritorial service connections. The requirements are as follows:

         New extraterritorial service connections within Yamhill County shall not be allowed unless
        Specifically approved by Yamhill County through the conditional use permit procedure.
        This procedure is intended to permit flexibility in cases of hardship. It is intended that the
        process be used sparingly and that the following criteria be strictly applied:

        a.      The applicant has documented that a genuine hardship exists due to quantity and/or
                quality of water;

        b.      Other alternatives have been investigated (e.g., deepening of existing well, drilling
                a new well or private treatment);

        on      The dwelling to be served is in close proximity to the LA Co-op water system and
                would not overburden existing water lines; and

        a.     Amendment of the LA Water Co-op Service Boundary is not immediately feasible.

2.      The county’s conditional use criteria will be addressed in section E of these findings. Until
 1996, when a request for two extraterritorial service connections were approved, the process in
the management agreement had never been used. Requests for extraterritorial service connections
is considered on a case by case basis, and approval in this case does not set a precedent for future
requests.

3,      Section I.G.2.(a)     of LA Water Boundary Agreement     The Board finds that the applicant
has documented that a genuine hardship exists due to quantity and/or quality of water, as required
by Section I1.G.2.(a) of the LA Water Boundary Agreement. A hardship exists because public
water is not available from the COWA,       and there has been an historic problem with obtaining
potable water in the Cove Orchard area. The applicant has provided copies of letters from two
well drillers that were submitted as part of the 1996 application for extraterritorial service
connections on two lots that are approximately 800' south of the subject lots. The letters indicate
that the quality of ground water in the Cove Orchard area is usually unpotable. Only with this
approval can LA Water service be made available to the subject parcel. Without this approval,
a hardship will exist because the property will be without potable water.

       The request for the extraterritorial service connection is directly tied to the request for a
zone change, since the lots are unlikely to be buildable under the current EF zoning regulations.
A hardship also results because the property owner has been paying for a sewer hook-up (reserve)
which she has been unable to utilize because of lack of water.

4,      Section HI1.G.2 (b)   The Board finds that other alternatives have been investigated (e.g.,
deepening of existing well, drilling a new well or private treatment), as required by Section

                                                                                   Exhibit "A"- Page 8
                                                                                         Ordinance 637
                                                                             riux GS vce 342

T.G.2.(0) of the LA Water Boundary Agreement. The COWA is unable to provide new water
connections. A well has not been drilled on the subject lots, but the letters submitted from well
drillers indicate that it would be difficult to obtain potable water. The Board finds that it would
be unreasonable to require the applicant to go to the expense of drilling a well to provide further
justification that the quality of groundwater is inadequate.

5.       Section III.G.2 (c) The Board finds that the dwelling to be served is in close proximity to
the LA Co-op water system and would not overburden existing water lines, as required by Section
TIL.G.2.(c) of the LA Water Boundary Agreement. The lots to be served are adjacent to Cove
Orchard Road, and the LA Water Co-op has a 2” water line within that road’s right of way.           The
Board finds that the LA Water Co-op has granted approval to the property owner for a new
connection, and would not do so if it would overburden the system or create problems for existing
customers.

6.     Section III.G.2 (d) The Board finds that amendment of the LA Water Co-op Service
Boundary is not immediately feasible, as required by Section III.G.2.(d) of the LA Water
Boundary Agreement, The lots would have to be removed from the COWA service boundary
before they could be added to the LA Water Co-op service boundary, and the operator of the
COWA, Betty Wodarczek, has indicated that COWA would not agree to a service boundary
amendment      to remove    the subject   lots from   the COWA    service   boundaries.      Therefore,
amendment of the LA Water Co-op boundary is not immediately feasible.

E.     Conditional Use Provisions and Analysis

1,       The LA Water Boundary Agreement requires county conditional use approval for an
extraterritorial service connection. Section 1202.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance
States that conditional uses may be authorized upon adequate demonstration by the applicant that
the proposed use will be compatible with vicinity uses and satisfies all relevant requirements of
the ordinance and the following criteria:

        (A)      The use is listed.as a conditional use in the underlying zoning district;

        (B)      ‘The use is consistent with those goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan
                 which apply to the proposed use;

        (C)      The parcel is suitable for the proposed use considering its size, shape, location,
                 topography, existence of improvements, and natural features.

        (PD)   — The proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding area in a manner
                which substantially limits, impairs, or prevents the use of surrounding properties
                for the permitted uses listed in the underlying zoning district.

        (E)      The proposed use is appropriate, considering the adequacy of the public facilities
                 and services existing or planned for the area affected; and

                                                                                    Exhibit "A"- Page 9
                                                                                          Ordinance 637
                                                                            FILK   03    PACE   313

        (F)      The use is or can be made compatible with existing uses and other allowable uses
                 in the area.

2.      YCZO 1202.02(A) The Board finds that the use is listed as a conditional use in the
underlying zoning district, as required by YCZO 1202.02(A). Water distribution lines fall into the
category of utility facilities, which are permitted rather than conditional uses in the EF-20 district.
Although the Zoning Ordinance permits the use, the Service Management Agreement places the
additional requirement of conditional use approval. Utility facilities are listed as conditional uses
in the VLDR district, pursuant to YCZO Section 502.03(G).

3.      YCZO 1202.02(B) The Board finds that the use is consistent with those goals and policies
of the Comprehensive Plan which apply to the proposed use, as required by YCZO 1202.02(B).
Since the proposal does not involve the construction of any new water lines, Comprehensive Plan
policies relating to utilities are not applicable. Similarly, Plan policies in the Public Facilities and
Services section apply to the establishment of new water systems and the consolidation of water
facilities, so are not directly applicable to this request.

4,      YCZO      1202.02(C)     The Board finds that the parcel is suitable for the proposed use
considering its size, shape, location, topography, existence of improvements, and natural features,
as required by YCZO        1202.02(C).     ‘The portions of lots 214 - 217 that are adjacent to Cove
Orchard Road contain no physical or natural features which would restrict or prevent a water line
connection. Lot 213 is entirely in the 100 year floodplain, which might restrict placement of water
lines to serve that lot. However, the application is for a single service connection, and the
applicant has indicated that the dwelling would be located near Cove Orchard Road, out of the
floodplain. Provided any water lines and meters are located near the road, the parcel is suitable
for the proposed connection and complies with YCZO 1202.02 (C).

5.      YCZO     1202.02(D)     The Board finds that the proposed use will not alter the character of
the surrounding area in a manner which substantially limits, impairs, or prevents the use of
surrounding properties for the permitted uses listed in the underlying zoning district, as required
by YCZO       1202.02(D). One possible effect to surrounding uses would be if the new connection
affected the supply of water (quality, quantity or water pressure) to surrounding lots that are
already connected to the LA Water Cooperative line along Cove Orchard Road. However, as
indicated in Finding D.5, it is unlikely that LA Water Co-op Board would approve the new
connection if it would substantially impact existing customers.

6.     YCZO 1202.02(E) The Board finds that the proposed use is appropriate, considering the
adequacy of the public facilities and services existing or planned for the area affected, as required
by YCZO 1202.02(E). The proposed water line connections are appropriate because the COWA
is unable to provide water, and drilling wells is unfeasible due to lack of potable water in the area.
The adequacy of the existing water line to serve existing residences in the area as well as an
additional residence on the subject lots has been addressed in Finding D.5.

7.      YCZO 1202.02(F) The Board finds that the use is or can be made compatible with existing
uses and other allowable uses in the area, as required by YCZO 1202.02(F). A water connection

                                                                                    Exhibit "A"- Page 10
                                                                                          Ordinance 637
                                                                                FILM     63     PACE   314

is not incompatible with other uses in the area, as evidenced by the large number of dwellings in
Cove Orchard that are already serviced by either the COWA or the LA Water Co-op.

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

1,         The request is for a Plan amendment and zone change from Exclusive Farm Use, EF-20
to Very Low Density Residential, VLDR-2.5, including an exception to Goal 3, and a request for
conditional use approval for an extraterritorial service connection to LA Water Cooperative.

2.       The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, and
is appropriate because it is adjacent to the developed Cove Orchard community, the area is made
up of existing small subdivision lots, and is within the boundaries of the Cove Orchard Sewer
district and Cove Orchard Water Association.

3.         An exception to goal 3 is justified because the lots are unsuitable for farming, and the
adjacent small residential lots, roads, water and sewer contribute to the area being irrevocably
committed to residential use.

4.     The request for an extraterritorial service connection complies with the LA Water
Cooperative - Yamhill County Service Boundary Management Agreement policy because a
genuine hardship has been shown based on no water being available from the Cove Orchard Water
Association and wells in the area producing unpotable water.

5.      With conditions, the extraterritorial service connection can comply with the conditional use
approval criteria in Section 1202 of the YCZO because the hookup will not alter the character of
the area and is compatible with surrounding uses.

DECISION:

The Board approves the request by Cathy Adams, representing Laura Johnson, to change the
Comprehensive Plan (1974) Map from "EF" (Exclusive Farm Use) to "VLDR" (Very Low
Density Residential), for a zone change from "EF-20" (Exclusive Farm Use/20 Acres) to "VLDR-
2.5" (Very Low Density Residential/2.5 acre minimum, for an exception to Goal 3 and
conditional use approval for an extraterritorial service connection to LA Water Cooperative, for
lots 213 - 217 of Tax Lot 2423CD-100,           and that the conditional use approval be subject to the
following condition:

               Permits from the county Public Works Department shall be obtained prior to any
               digging or instailation of water lines within the county road right-of-way.

paz04-97.001

                                                                                       Exhibit "A"- Page 11
                                                                                              Ordinance 637
                                                                       FILK        63   PACE   315

     EXHIBIT "B" FOR ORDINANCE No. 637
          COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENT FROM
   EXCLUSIVE FARM USE TO VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL;
ZONING MAP AMENDMENT FROM EXCLUSIVE FARM USE DISTRICT
(EF-20) TO VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (VLDR-2.5).

       SET ALAB Tots!

                                                                         YSAV3d
                        WASHINGTON                     AVE

                                                                              40

                         COVE          ORCHARD                    RD

                                AREA SUBJECT TO AMENDMENT:
                                The western portion of Tax Lot 2423CD-100,
                                consisting of lots 213 - 217 of F.C. Graham’s Cove Orchards

           Prepared by Yamhill County Department of Planning and Development

                                                                          ORDINANCE            637
                                                                          Exhibit "B"