YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 2.15: Establish the Office of County Administrator  Page 1 of 3

YAMHILL COUNTY CODE

TITLE 2: COUNTY ADMINISTRATION

Chapter 2.15: Establish the Position of County Administrator

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Title
2.15.01 PURPOSE
2.15.02 DEFINITIONS
2.15.03 OFFICE OF COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR CREATED
2.15.04 APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL
2.15.05 VACANCY, ABSENCE OR DISABILITY
2.15.06 AUTHORITY
2.15.07 DELEGATION
2.15.08 INTERACTION WITH COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR, EMPLOYEES
2.16.09 CONFLICT WITH PROCEDURES ORDINANCE

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

2.15.01 Purpose. The Board finds and determines that the interests of the County will be best served by delegating
certain administrative authority of the Board to a County Administrator who will be responsible to the Board for
the administration of the duties specified by this ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.02 Definitions. The following terms used in this ordinance shall have the meanings set forth below:
a) “Elected Official” means and includes the following Yamhill County elected officials: the Commissioners,
the Sheriff, the Clerk, the Assessor, the Treasurer and the Surveyor. “ Elected Official ” also means and
includes the District Attorney, a state elected official.
b) “Liaison Commissioner” means the member of the Board assigned by the Board to one or more county
departments, committees or agencies for purposes of being informed about issues pertinent to the department,
committee or agency and not for administrative purposes. It is the responsibility of the Liaison Commissioner
to communicate information to the Board.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.03 Office of County Administrator Created . The Office of County Administrator is hereby created. The
County Administrator shall act as the head of  administration for the County and, if delegated by the district
governing body, county service districts.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 2.15: Establish the Office of County Administrator  Page 2 of 3
2.15.04 Appointment, Removal.
a) The County Administrator shall be appointed by the Board for an indefinite term. The County Administrator
is an at -will employee and may be removed at the pleasure of the Board, consistent with any applicable
employment agreement and this ordinance.
b) The person holding the position of Administrative Services Director on the effective date of this ordinance is
designated as County Administrator.
c) The County Administrator may be tentatively removed by a majority vote of the Board Commissioners. Upon
such a majority vote, the Board shall adopt a preliminary order setting forth the reasons for the County
Administrator's removal. The County Administrator may reply, in writing, and may request an opportunity to
be heard at a meeting of the Board, which shall be an executive session unless the County Administrator
requests the matter be conducted in open session. After such hearing of the  Board, if one is  requested, and
after full consideration, the Board may adopt a final order  of removal. By the preliminary order, the Board
may suspend the County Administrator  from duty, but shall, during the term of such suspension, cause the
County Administrator to be paid any salary and fringe benefit amounts due the County Administrator as the
result of the duly executed employment agreement in effect at the time of the preliminary  order; provided,
however, that no such payment shall be made if the County Administrator's removal is for any reason
involving moral turpitude or lack of integrity pursuant to the terms of the employment agreement.
d) Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Board and the County Administrator from
negotiating and entering into a separation agreement.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.05 Vacancy, Absence or Disability.
a) When a permanent vacancy occurs in the Office of County Administrator, the Board shall designate an Acting
County Administrator until such time as a County Administrator is appointed. The Acting County
Administrator shall have all powers and duties conferred on the County Administrator by this ordinance.
b) The County Administrator may designate in writing an administrative officer of  the County to exercise and
perform the County Administrator's powers and duties during the County Administrator's temporary absence
or disability. Where the Administrator has not designated someone to act on behalf of the Administrator and
due to temporary incapacity the Administrator is incapable of making such designation, the Board may
designate an acting Administrator to serve until such time as the Administrator is capable  of making a
designation or has resumed responsibilities.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.06 Authority.
a) The County Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative Officer of the County and all County service
districts, if that authority is delegated by the governing body of the  district. The County Administrator shall
be responsible to the Board for the administration and management of the County and its service districts and
shall have control and supervision of all administrative departments, divisions, offices, districts and agencies
subject to the County Administrator's jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided by law . The County
Administrator shall exercise no authority over the actions of Elected Officials.
b) The Board hereby delegates to the County Administrator broad authority to perform the County
Administrator's job functions. The County Administrator is  responsible to the Board for the manner of the
County Administrator's administration. The Board reserves to itself all of its legislative and judicial or quasi-
judicial authority, unless expressly delegated.
c) The County Administrator shall have the specific authority, to perform all day-today functions necessary for
the administration and management of County affairs and, if delegated, the affairs of County service districts.
Such authority includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(i) Direct and coordinate the overall management of County government in accordance with policies
set by the Board and applicable laws.
(ii) Consistent with any applicable collective bargaining agreement, transfer  employees from one
office or department to another when the workload requires such action.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 2.15: Establish the Office of County Administrator  Page 3 of 3
(iii) Provide the proper administration of all ordinances, orders and resolutions  of the Board, all
contracts entered into by the County, and provide for the enforcement of  all policies, rules,
procedures, orders and regulations duly adopted by the Board.
(iv) In consultation with members of the Board, select, appoint and dismiss all heads of departments,
except Elected Officials , in accordance with federal and state laws and guidelines, applicable
contracts and policies adopted by the Board; and advise the Board of the reasons and process used
in any selections, appointments or dismissals.
(v) Supervise and discipline all heads of departments, except Elected Officials, in accordance federal
and state laws, and applicable contracts and county policies; and advise the Board of the reasons
and process used in any disciplinary actions.
(vi) Coordinate the work of all offices, departments and agencies, and devise ways and means whereby
efficiency and economy may be secured in the operation of all offices, departments and agencies.
(vii) Prepare and submit to the Board and budget committee an annual budget and a long range capital
improvement and expenditure program, along with a financial plan for raising revenue.
(viii) Direct the use, maintenance and custody of all county property, buildings, works and
improvements according to policies promulgated by the Board.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 947 eff 02/12/26]

2.15.07 Delegation. The County Administrator may delegate any authority to County department heads or other
County or district staff, in a manner consistent with the  provisions of the County policies or district operating
agreements.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.08 Interaction with County Administrator, Employees . In the exercise of their authority as members of
the governing body of the County, Board members may individually, or as a group in a public meeting, discuss
fully and freely with the County Administrator any matter pertaining to County affairs or the interest of the
County. Board members may not direct any County employee, other than the County Administrator, in the
performance of their duties. This section shall not be construed to prohibit a Board member from performing the
Board member's role as liaison in making inquiries of  County employees within particular departments, or
members of committees or agencies to which they are assigned concerning day-to-day conduct of County affairs.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.09 Conflict with Procedures Ordinance. Where any provision of this ordinance conflicts with a provision
of Yamhill County Code, Chapter 2.05, as amended, this ordinance shall control.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

2.15.10 Severability Clause. Any judgment or declaration by any court of competent jurisdiction that nay portion
of this Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid shall not invalidate any other portion of this Ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 848 eff 01/01/10]

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

Adopted via Ordinance No. 848 on 12/02/2009, effective 01/01/2010
 Amended via Ordinance No. 947 on 02/12/2026, effective 02/12/26