FILA        60     PAGE   536

             IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF ORE
                                                                                  wie)

                              FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL
                                                                                  pr
                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the
Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974) to
Change the Designation from Agriculture/Forestry

                                                            ee
Small Holding to Very Low Density Residential and
Amending the Official Zoning Map from                               ORDINANCE               611

                                                            eee
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding (AF-10) to
VLDR 2.5 (Very Low Density Residential)       on
a 9.6 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 3214-1700;
Applicant Hedwig Stang; Planning Docket

                                                            Wee
PAZ-01-96; and Declaring an Emergency.

         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on June 19, 1996 Commissioners Robert Johnstone and
Dennis L. Goecks being present, Commissioner Thomas E.E. Bunn excused.

        WHEREAS, on March 19, 1996 the Department of Planning and Development received
an application by Hedwig Stang ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-01-96, to change the
comprehensive plan designation from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Very Low Density
Residential, and to amend the Official Zoning Map from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding(AF-
10) to VLDR 2.5 (Very Low Density Residential)      on a 9.6 acre parcel known as Tax Lot 3214-
1700; and

        WHEREAS, on May 2, 1996 the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public
hearing to consider the application and voted 7-1 to recommend approval of the comprehensive
plan and zoning amendments; and

       WHEREAS,      on June 5, 1996, the Board held a public hearing on the application at which
testimony and evidence was received, and following the close of the hearing and the record, the
Board deliberated and voted 2-0 (Commissioner Bunn excused) to tentatively approve the
application for the comprehensive plan amendment and zone change and directed staff to prepare
an ordinance and findings in support of approval; and.

        WHEREAS, the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated
herein by this reference provide justification for approval of the application for the amendment to
the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map, and Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County
and that approval thereof is in the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill County;          Now
Therefore,
                                                                                         G 4- 3 VG            AEE

                                                                                       ORDINANCE 611
                                                                                                     Page 1
                                                                                           rk 60 sc: 537

        THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1.         The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan and Plan Map (1974) are hereby
amended as specified in the attached Exhibit "B", made part of this ordinance by reference, to
reflect a plan designation of "Very Low Density Residential" described and shown in Exhibit "B”.

       Section 2.      The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended as specified
in the attached Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning designation of "Very Low Density Residential
(VLDR-2.5)".

        Section 3.    The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference
are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

         Section 4.   This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon
passage.
                                                        he
        DONE      at McMinnville,   Oregon this    WA        day of June,     1996.

                                        YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                          Oe) e
                                                  Bebe tt ta
                                        Chairman                  (ROBERT JOHNSTONE

                                        Commissioner                 THOMAS           E. E.“7BUNN

FORM APPRQVED BY:                         Q                       Lf             !           i

Goan C. betel                           Commissioner                 DENNIS L. GOECKS
Assistant County Counsel

HAADMIN\PINKSTALU\96.172

                                                                                                 ORDINANCE   611
                                                                                                         Page 2
                                                                               Fix 60 ce 538
                                                EXHIBIT "A"

                                            ORDINANCE 611

TENTATIVE APPROVAL BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                                     June 5, 1996

FINAL ADOPTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                                         June 19, 1996

DOCKET:                            PAZ-01-96.

REQUEST:                           Zone change from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding(AF-10) to
                                   Very Low Density Residential (WLDR-2.5); Comprehensive Plan
                                   map amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Very
                                   Low Density Residential.

APPLICANT:                         Hedwig Stang, represented by her son Ron Stang.

TAX LOTS:                          3214-1700.

LOCATION:                          33025 NE Old Parrett Mountain Road.

REVIEW CRITERIA:                   Section 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

FINDINGS:

A.     Back;        nd     Facts

1.     Lot Size:         9.6 acres excluding the roadway.

2.     Access:      Old Parrett Mountain Road.

3.     On-Site Land Use: The parcel is on a west facing slope. The parcel contains a residence
on the west side of the parcel. The remainder of the property contains an orchard.

4.     Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: Adjacent parcels to the north and east are zone AF-10
Agriculture/Forestry  Small Holding.    Land to the west is generally zoned AF-10
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding.        The exception to this is a triangular section of approximately
three acres that is zoned VLDR-2.5 Very Low Density Residential.             Land to the south is zoned
VLDR 2.5 and AF-20 Agriculture/Forestry.           Land in the area contains rural residential and small
farm/forestry uses.       The small farm uses include livestock and orchards.

5.     Water:      The area is within a Groundwater Limited Area.       This limits the ability to obtain
water rights for irrigation but does not prevent use of groundwater for domestic purposes.

                                                                                      Exhibit "A" - Page 1
                                                                                            Ordinance 611
                                                                             FILM    60    PACE   od9

6.      Sewage Disposal:    Individual on-site septic systems would be required.

7.      Fire Protection:   Newberg Rural Fire District.

8.      Taxes:   The properties are not receiving a farm or forestry deferral.

9.       Soils: Sheet 23 of the Soil Survey shows that 70% of the parcel consists of Laurelwood
silt loam (LuC, LuD) with slopes of 3 to 20 percent. Twenty percent consists of Jory Clay Loam
(IrC) with 7 to 12 percent slopes. These two soil types are rated with an agricultural capability
class of III, and the soil type is considered to be high-value farmland. The remaining ten percent
is a mixture of Jory and Laurelwood on 30-60 percent slopes with an agricultural capability of
class VI. These soils are not considered high-value farmland. The forest productivity capability
of all these soils is between 155 to 160 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber.

10.    Previous Actions: The subject property is made up of Lot 3 and 4 of the Chehalem
Uplands No. 1 subdivision. This subdivision was platted on March 6, 1911.

 11.     Other Factors: The existing zone on the property allows "Any permitted or conditional use
provided for in this District may be established on a substandard pre-existing lot of record, subject
to the applicable requirements of this section." A dwelling is a permitted use in this zone. Since
the lots were created by the Chehalem Uplands No. 1 subdivision, each lot could have a single
family dwelling established. Therefore, Lot 4 could be developed with a single family residence
without any additional land use approval.

12.     Exceptions: The subject parcel and area to the north, east and west were all granted an
exception from the statewide planning goals protecting farm and forestry uses (Goals 3 and 4).
The area was granted an exception and plan designated AFSH Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding
by Exceptions Statement II. This document was adopted by the Board of Commissioners April
23, 1980. The land to the south was also granted an exception at the same time but was plan
designated to a higher density of development as VLDR Very Low Density Residential.

                                                                                    Exhibit "A" - Page 2
                                                                                          Ordinance 611
                                                                      itl    60    PACE   540

B.     Zone    Change   Review   Criteria and Analysis.

1.     The subject request must comply with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County
Zoning Ordinance (YCZO), Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

       A,      That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
               other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       B.     That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed
              by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the
              citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which
              such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other lands so
              zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

       C.     That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
              uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which
              may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and
              the availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated
              uses in the proposed district.

       D,      That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are
               either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to
               location, size, or other factors.

       E.     That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative
              Rules for exceptions, if applicable.

       These criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.6, below.

2.      The Board finds that the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan as required by YCZO §1208.02 A.

2.1    Comprehensive Plan, Policy (a) of Goal I.B.2, states as follows:

       Yamhill County will continue to recognize that the appropriate location of very low
       density residential development is in designated large areas where commitments to
       such uses have already been made through existing subdivisions, partitioning, or
       development and by virtue of close proximity to existing urban centers, or in small,
       limited areas having unique scenic, locational and other suitable site qualities
       where the anticipated magnitude or density of development is not such as to require
       more than a very basic level of services, such as single local-road access,
       individual domestic wells and sewage disposal systems, and possible rural fire
       protection.

                                                                                   Exhibit "A" ~ Page 3
                                                                                          Ordinance 611
                                                                                  FILM   60    PACE   544

        This area does contain an obvious commitment to rural residential uses and is within close
proximity to existing urban centers.     The property is part of a subdivision that was platted in
1911. The Board finds that the proposed VLDR 2.5 designation will comply with the above
policy.

3.      The Board finds that the proposed comprehensive plan and zone change satisfies the
requirements of YCZO §1208.02(B), namely that there is an existing demonstrable need for the
particular uses allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the
citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by
the zone.

3.1     The applicant indicted that she has owned the property since 1938. Applicant is in her 70's
and due to her age she needs to create three parcels out of this 9.8 parcel so that her son and
daughter can each have a residence on the property so as to be near her to care for her.

3.2     The proposed use is to allow additional rural residences.       This is already an exception
area, so no exception is required.    The applicant has stated that parcels in this area have been
divided and with the high demand for housing, the parcels are getting smaller.

         Considering the need for the particular uses and the availability and location of other lands
so zoned, south of the subject parcel, across Parrett Mountain Road is an existing area zoned
VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential. This area was previously identified as code area 1.13.
A study of this area shows a total of 44 parcels, 36 with dwellings and approximately 20 additional
lots that could be created by partitioning.

        Regarding land in the county east of Newberg, three exception areas exist that have rural
residential zoning similar to that requested by the applicant. The exception areas are identified
as areas 1.11, 1.12. 1.13 and 1.15. The following is the combined information on these study
areas:

                                                                                   Exhibit "A" - Page 4
                                                                                         Ordinance 611
                                                                              FILM     00     PACE   54?

     Zone         Existing Lots      Developed Lots          Vacant Lots             Potential New Lots

   VLDR-1                5                   2                     3                            13
  VLDR 2.5              75                  65                     10                           35
    AF-10              149                  114                   35                            16

        The applicant indicated that there was a high demand for smaller homesite.      Similar
requests have identified the market demand and have cited the lack of property on the market to
satisfy the demand.

4.      The Board finds that this request satisfies the requirements of YCZO §1208.02(C). Lands
to the south are zoned VLDR-2.5, so the proposed 2.5-acre zoning is in character with the lot size
pattern and development in the adjacent areas.

        Land 1/4 mile to the east, is zoned AF-20 and currently in small woodlot and agricultural
use. Approval of the requested rezone will not cause any conflicts with farming activities on these
properties since they are already adjacent to AF-10 zoning.

        The most recent change to occur in the area which might support the requested rezone was
the platting of the Parrett Mountain Estates subdivision, located directly south of the subject
property, in 1990. The number of subdivisions in the area has increased throughout the years.
The proposed rezoning would continue this trend of creating 2.5-acre lot subdivisions.

       Available services in the area include water from on-site wells, electricity, fire service and
road access from Parrett Mountain Road. These services are adequate for the proposed residential
uses. There are no sewer services available, so individual septic systems would be required.

5.      The Board finds that the application complies with YCZO §1208.02(D).          Applicant
indicated that there are no other parcels in the county which are zoned for residential use are
unavailable and which are as well-suited for her children to reside and care for her.

6.     The Board finds that the application complies with YCZO §1208.02(E). As indicated in
Finding A.12 above, this property was part of Exception Statement II which was adopted by
Yamhill County in 1980. Therefore the property has previously satisfied the requirements of OAR
660-04 for taking an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3 and 4.

CONCLUSIONS:

1.      The request is for an amendment to the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan map from
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to Very Low Density Residential and a zone change from AF-
10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding to VLDR-2.5 Very Low Density Residential.

                                                                                     Exhibit "A" - Page 5
                                                                                            Ordinance 611
                                                                                   Fhe   60     PAGE         043

2.         The request complies with Section 1208.02 of the YCZO.

DECISION:

           Based upon the findings and conclusions above and substantial evidence in the record,       the
application by Hedwig F. Stang in PAZ-01-96            for the amendment to the Yamhill County
Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map, and Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County to change the
comprehensive plan designation to "Very Low Density Residential" and the zoning designation
to "VLDR-2.5" is hereby approved.

admin\pinkstj\lu\96.171

                                                                                   Exhibit "A" - Page 6
                                                                                         Ordinance 611
                                                        vu OO ace 544
                  EXHIBIT   "B" FOR ORDINANCE NO. 611

                   PLAN AMENDMENT/ZONE        CHANGE

ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY             BOARD   OF COMMISSIONERS

                              JUNE 19, 1996

  TO CHANGE THE PLAN DESIGNATION FROM AFSH TO VLDR
   AND THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FROM AF-10 TO VLDR 2.5

   SCALE   1" =    400'

   CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOT 3214-1700, DESCRIBED ABOVE

   MAP PREPARED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY PLANNING DEPARTMENT