F:\WorkRelease\1145\Work Release
Approved Property Work Release Program Staff
& Contact Information

Yamhill County Dept. of Community Justice
615 NE 6th St
McMinnville, OR 97128
Phone:  (503) 434-7513
Fax:  (503) 472-5216

www.co.yamhill.or.us

***All Work Release inquiries should be
made through Yamhill County Dept. of
Community Justice.***

Work Release Officer:  Marcus Krieg
(503) 474-4975

Yamhill County Correctional Facility (including
Work Center)
535 NE 5th St
McMinnville, OR 97128

Entrance for Work Release Program partici-
pants is at the north-side of the facility directly
across from the Dept. of Community Justice
Annex.

Small property lockers are available
for Work Release participants to
store the below approved property:

(3)   pairs underwear
(3) bras
(3) t -shirts
(3) pairs of socks
(3) pairs of pants
(1) jacket
(1) sweatshirt/sweater
(1) pair of shoes
(1) pair of boots
(1) pair of shower shoes
(1)   windup alarm clock

*Laundry facilities are provided.*

Cell phones and electronics
of any kind are prohibited
inside the facility for any
reason.

Lockers are subject to search at all
times by staff.

 Upon return to the facility, partici-
pants may be subject to a urinaly-
sis and/or intoxilyzer at the re-
quest of staff.

Operated by Yamhill County Department of
Community Justice in partnership with Yam-
hill County Sheriff’s Office.
Yamhill County
Work Release
Program

F:\WorkRelease\1145\Work Release
TRUST, SERVICE & COMMUNITY SAFETY Authority:  When a person is sentenced to the
custody of the Department of Corrections, the Court
may recommend to the department that the person
so sentenced be granted the option of serving the
sentence by enrollment in the Work Release Pro-
gram.  ORS 144.440

ORS 144.420:  The Department of Corrections is re-
sponsible for the quartering and supervision of per-
sons enrolled in the Work Release Program.

Mission:  The Work Release Program is based
upon a philosophy that work release is a useful inter-
mediate alternative between confinement and total
release to the community.  The program provides a
stable sentencing alternative for the Court while
maintaining a high emphasis on community safety.

Purpose:  Participation in the Work Release Pro-
gram is a privilege extended to the participant by the
Court, Sheriff’s Department, District Attorney’s Office
and Community Justice.

      Benefits to the Participant:

Allow the offender to maintain pre-existing employ-
ment and/or enrollment in schooling.

Allow the participant to support themselves  and their
dependents while serving a jail sentence.

        Benefits to the Court:

Provide a sentencing alternative to straight jail.

   Benefits to the Community:

Provide participants with the opportunity to pay resti-
tution, compensation and other Court ordered finan-
cial obligations.

Provide a more successful transition of incarcerated
individuals to the community.
Candidates for the Work Release Program are
screened thoroughly and must meet the below
criteria in order to qualify for the program:

• Be Court-ordered a straight jail sentence of
at least 10 days, with no pending charges.

• Have verifiable and acceptable employment
or schooling that is not affiliated with a fami-
ly member and is not self-employment.

 Employment should be pre-existing with
 at least 30 days on the job.

 Employment does not require out of
 state travel or exceed six days per
 week, 12 hour days (including travel
 time).

• Agree to not operate a motor vehicle while
in the program and have approved transpor-
tation, ie: a licensed/insured driver or alter-
nate approved means of transportation.

• Agree to turn all paychecks over to program
staff on designated pay days for collection
of Room & Board fees of $20 per day.

 If attending school, all Room & Board
 fees are payable in advance.

• For liability purposes, individuals with nar-
cotic prescriptions are prohibited from en-
rollment.

Additional selection factors include:

• Prior involvement in the Work Release pro-
gram.

• Current charge and prior criminal record.

• Behavior/attitude while in confinement.
Selection & Criteria   Temporary Passes and Leaves

Work Release participants may be eligible for
two personal passes per month after success-
fully completing 30 days in the program.

 Passes are taken in Yamhill County.

 All passes are verified in advance by
 program staff.

Participants are eligible for treatment passes
to attend approved treatment programs out-
side the facility.

All passes are subject to approval/denial by
program staff in accordance with the best in-
terests of the community, the Work Release
Program and the participant.

Removal Criteria

Any Work Release participant can be removed from
the program for any cause deemed appropriate by
Work Release or Jail staff.

General Guidelines for Removal:

•  Discharge from employment.

•  Inmate request.

•  Violation of any program rules.

•  Alleged law violations.

•  Behavior and/or attitude that is detrimental
 or reflects unfavorably upon the participant
 or the program.

•  Community safety concerns.