Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code  Page 1 of 6

TITLE 10: BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION

Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Title
10.25.01 DEFINITIONS
10.25.02 APPLICATION FOR CLAIM
10.25.03 COMPLETENESS REVIEW
10.25.04 APPLICATION REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION
10.25.05 BOARD CONSIDERATION OF PLANNING DIRECTOR'S RECOMMENDATION
10.25.06 BOARD CONSIDERATION AND DECISION; APPLICABLE PROCEDURE WHERE USE ALSO
BARRED BY STATE LAND USE REGULATION
10.25.07 BOARD DECISION EFFECT
10.25.08 SEVERABILITY

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

10.25.01 Definitions. For the purpose of this ordinance, the following terms, phrases, words and their derivations
shall have the meaning given in this section. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural include the singular and words in the  singular include the plural.
Words not defined in this ordinance shall be given the meaning intended in the provisions added to ORS Chapter
197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004), or as those words may be subsequently defined by statute. Words
used in this ordinance that are  the same as words used in the provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot
Measure 37 (November 2, 2004) shall have the same meaning as the words used in those provisions added to
ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004), notwithstanding any different  definition in any
other regulation. If not defined there, the words shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
a) Claim. A claim filed under Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004).
b) Enforced. For purposes of this ordinance only, a land use regulation is “enforced” when one of the following
events occurs:
(i) The County denies a land use application seeking permission to use an owner's property in a
specific way because a land use regulation does not allow the use;
(ii) The Planning Director issues a written statement determining that the use  of an owner's property
in a specific way is not allowed by a land use regulation; or
(iii) An owner has been cited into Circuit Court by the Code Enforcement  Officer for violating a
Yamhill County land use regulation.
c) Exempt Land Use Regulation. A land use regulation that:
Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code  Page 2 of 6
(i) Restricts or prohibits activities commonly and historically recognized as  public nuisances under
common law;
(ii) Restricts or prohibits activities for the protection of public health and safety, such as fire and
building codes, health and sanitation regulations, solid or hazardous  waste regulations, and
pollution control regulations;
(iii) Is required to comply with federal law;
(iv) Restricts or prohibits the use of property for the purpose of selling pornography or performing
nude dancing; or
(v) Was enacted prior to the date of acquisition of the property by the owner or a family member.
d) Family Member. Includes the wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, brother -in-law, sister,
sister-in-law, son- in-law, daughter -in-law, mother -in-law, father -in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew,
stepparent, stepchild, grandparent, or grandchild of the owner of the property, an estate of any of the foregoing
family members, or a legal entity owned by any one or combination of these family members or the owner of
the property.
e) Land Use Regulation. Includes:
(i) Any statute regulating the use of land or any interest therein;
(ii) Administrative rules and goals of the Land Conservation and Development Commission; and
(iii) Local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, land division ordinances, and
transportation ordinances.
f) Owner. The present owner of the property, or any interest therein.
g) Planning Director. The Planning Director or the Plam1ing Director's designee.
h) Valid Claim. A claim submitted by the owner of real property that is subject to a land use regulation adopted
or enforced by Yamhill County that restricts the use of the private real property in a manner that reduces the
fair market value of the real property and otherwise satisfies the requirements of Ballot Measure 37
(November 2, 2004) and this ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

10.25.02 Application for Claim.
a) An applicant seeking to file a claim under this ordinance shall be the present owner of the property that is the
subject of the claim at the time the claim is submitted. An applicant shall submit an application to the Planning
Director consisting of all of the items set out in this section. The Planning Director may waive the submission
of any materials if not deemed applicable to the  evaluation of the specific claim. Within 20 working days of
the date the application is first submitted, the Planning Director may require additional information beyond
that listed in this  section where necessary to address approval criteria for the claim. The applicant is
responsible for the completeness and accuracy of the application and all of the supporting documentation.
Unless specifically waived by the Planning Director, the following must be submitted:
(i) A completed application form with an application fee to at least partially cover  the County costs
of processing the application. The fee shall be set by Board Order;
(ii) The name, mailing address, and phone number of the property owner filing the application, and of
each of the other owners of the subject property and anyone with any interest in the property,
including lien holders, trustees, renters, lessees, and a description of the ownership interest of each,
if any, along with the signature of each of the other owners indicating consent to the application
claim;
(iii) A legal description and tax lot number of the subject pr operty as well as a street  address for the
property (if any);
(iv) A title report or information report issued by a title company licensed to do business in Oregon
issued within 30 days of the application's submittal, including title history and including a
statement of the date the applicant acquired ownership of the subject property and showing the
ownership interests of all owners of the property or, as an alternative to the title report, a certified
copy of the latest deed( s) granting all exi sting ownership interests to the owner( s) of the subject
property signing the application;
Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code  Page 3 of 6
(v) A statement specifically identifying the section of any Yamhill County land use regulation that
allegedly restricts the use of the real property and allegedly causes a reduction in the fair market
value of the subject property, including the date the regulation was adopted, first  enforced or
applied to the subject property;
(vi) A statement of the relief sought by the owner, such as a monetary payment in a specific amount ,
removal of the applicable regulation, modification of the applicable regulation, or a decision to not
apply the regulation to the subject property. If a modification is sought, a description of the desired
modification must be included;
(vii) A statement indicating the amount of the alleged reduction in the fair market value of the property
by showing the difference in the fair market value of the property before and after application of
the challenged regulation. If determined necessary by the Planning Director in the Director's sole
discretion, the written statement must include a copy of a written appraisal by an appraiser licensed
by the Appraiser Certification and Licensure Board of the State of Oregon, addressing the
requirements of the provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2,
2004);
(viii) A written statement addressing the criteria listed in Section 10.25.04;
(ix) Copies of any leases or covenants, conditions and restrictions applicable to the subject property if
any exist that impose restrictions on the use of the property; and
b) The Planning Director shall exercise best efforts to cause written notice of the claim to be mailed to owners
of property whose property lines abut those of the claimant (“surrounding property owners”). For those claims
filed on or after March 3, 2005, notice shall be mailed within ten business days of a claim being deemed
complete under this section. For those other claims previously filed but awaiting final Board determination as
of March 2, 2005, notice shall be mailed as soon as reasonably practicable. The failure of a surrounding
property owner to receive notice required by this subsection shall not effect the validity of any determination
on a claim by the Board. The notice required by this subsection shall include at least the following information:
(i) The name of the claimant.
(ii) The street address or easily understood geographical reference to the subject property.
(iii) The nature of the claim, including the relief or compensation sought.
(iv) Criteria from Ordinance 749 that the Planning Director and Board are required to consider when
acting on a claim.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04; AMENDED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 762 eff 03/04/04]

10.25.03 Completeness Review. The Planning Director shall review a claim application and, within 20 working
days of its  receipt, notify the applicant as to whether the application is complete. If the Planning Director
determines that the application is complete, the Planning Director shall begin the application  review process. If
the Planning Director determines that the application is incomplete, the county shall advise the applicant in writing
of the necessary missing information. Within 10  days of the mailing of a notice of missing information, the
applicant shall su bmit to the county a written statement indicating either an intent to submit the missing
information or a refusal to submit the missing information. A statement indicating an intention to submit missing
information shall constitute a waiver of the 180-day deadline contained in the provisions added to ORS Chapter
197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004) for a period of time equal to the time it takes to supply the missing
information. The County shall accept the application and begin review either:
a) Upon receipt of all of the missing information requested by the County;
b) Upon receipt of a written statement from the applicant indicating that the missing  information will not be
provided; or
c) Upon the 20th day after mailing the notice of missing information referred to  above, if the applicant has not
responded.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code  Page 4 of 6
10.25.04 Application Review and Recommendation.
a) The Planning Director shall make an initial determination as to whether the application is a valid Ballot
Measure 37 claim that qualifies for compensation consideration by the Board. An application qualifies for
compensation consideration if the applicant has shown that all of the following criteria are met:
(i) Yamhill County has either adopted or enforced a land use regulation that restricts the use of private
real property or any interest therein;
(ii) The restriction on use has the effect of reducing the fair market value of the property or any interest
therein, upon which the restriction is imposed;
(iii) The challenged Yamhill County land use regulation was adopted, enforced or applied after the
current owner of the property (the applicant) became the owner; and
(iv) The challenged Yamhill County land use regulation is not an exempt land use regulation as defined
in Section 10.25.01.
b) If an application fails to meet one or more of the criteria in subsection (a) of this section, the Planning Director
shall issue a written recommendation to the Board recommending denial of the claim application and
explaining the reason(s) for determining that the application does not qualify for compensation consideration.
c) If the claim application meets all of  the criteria in subsection (a) of this section, the Planning Director shall
issue a written recommendation to the Board recommending acceptance of the claim application as a valid
claim and explaining the basis for the Director's recommendation. The recommendation shall include at least
the following components:
(i) The Planning Director's determination of the amount of compensation to which the applicant may
be entitled as a result of a reduction in property value due to the imposition of a land use regulation;
and
(ii) The Planning Director's determination whether it is necessary to modify, remove or not to apply a
Yamhill Co unty land use regulation to avoid owner entitlement to compensation under the
provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (Novem ber 2, 2004). The
determination shall include a recommendation on the extent of adjustment of the  land use
regulation needed to avoid the entitlement to such compensation; and
(iii) The Planning Director's determination that the public interest is served by modifying, removing or
not applying the subject land use regulation in lieu of paying compensation; taking into
consideration the financial resources of the County for the payment of such claims.
d) The Planning Director shall issue a recommendation to the Board by the 45
th day after the application was
accepted and review was commenced as provided in Section 10.25.03. Notice  of the Planning Director's
recommendation to the Board shall be mailed to the applicant.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

10.25.05 Board Consideration of Planning Director's Recommendation.
a) Within 15 days of the referral of the Planning Director's recommendation to the Board, the Board shall
consider the recommendation at an informal session. No public hearing shall be held unless a majority of the
Board votes to schedule a public hearing. If a public hearing is scheduled, staff shall comply with the
requirements of subsection ( b) of this section. If no public hearing is scheduled, the Planning Director's
recommendation shall be considered at a later formal Board session as either a consent or non-consent agenda
item. Public comment at the time of the non-consent agenda action item shall be allowed only with the consent
of a majority of the Board.
b) If a public heari ng is scheduled as provided in subsection (a), written notice of the recommendation and
hearing date shall be mailed to all of the following at least 15 days prior to the hearing:
(i) The applicant;
(ii) Other owners of the subject property and anyone with any interest in the  property, including lien
holders, trustees, renters, or lessees, as listed on the application;
(iii) Owners of record on the most recent property tax assessment roll of properties located within 500
feet of the perimeter of the subject property; and
(iv) Other agencies or interested parties as determined by the Planning Director.
c) The failure of any person to receive notice shall not affect or invalidate any proceedings under this ordinance.
Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code  Page 5 of 6
d) The notice shall include all of the following:
(i) The street address or other easily understood geographical reference to the subject property;
(ii) The criteria for the decision;
(iii) The place, date, and location of the hearing;
(iv) The nature of the application and the proposed use or uses sought by the owner if the identified
land use regulation is waived or modified with respect to the subject property;
(v) A general explanation of the requirements for submission of testimony and the procedure for
conduct of hearings; and
(vi) The name and telephone number of a county contact person.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

10.25.06 Board Consideration and Decision; Applicable Procedure Where Use Also Barred by State Land
Use Regulation.
a) Upon conclusion of consideration of a claim application, and not later than 180 days after a claim application
is filed with the Planning Director, the Board shall issue a written decision by Board Order that declares:
(i) The claim is not a valid claim; or
(ii) The claim is a valid claim and the amount of compensation, if any, due to the owner(s) of the
subject property; or
(iii) The claim is a valid claim and the County will, as of the date of the final Board decision, modify,
remove, or choose not to apply the challenged land use regulation(s) to avoid reducing the fair
market value of the property and to allow the owner to use the property for a use permitted at the
time the owner acquired the property. In those circumstances where the Board has decided to
modify, remove or not to apply the challenged Yamhill County land use regulation but the us e
remains prohibited by a State of Oregon land use regulation, the Planning Director shall send notice
of the Board's decision to the Director of the Department of Land Conservation and Development.
The notice shall include a statement that the County will not accept an application for a building
permit related to the newly allowed use of the property until the earlier of the following events: (i)
notice by the Department of Land Conservation and Development that it concurs with the Board's
decision, or (ii) a date 180 days from issuance of the Board's decision where no response is made
to the notice by the Department of Land Conservation and Development.
b) Where more than one regulation is being challenged, the Board may provide for a  combination of the two
remedies listed above in subsections 10.25.06(a)(ii) and (iii).
c) The Board decision shall be based upon consideration of whether the public interest would be better served
by compensating the applicant, or by modifying, removing, or choosing not to apply the challenged Yamhill
County land use regulation(s) to the subject property. The final Board decision shall include a statement of
the facts relied upon in rendering the decision and explains the justification for the decision based upon the
criteria set forth in this subsection.
d) Provided all components of this section are satisfied, nothing in this section prevents the Board from accepting
the Planning Director's written recommendation as the final Board decision.
e) Within 5 days after the Board renders a decision, the County shall mail notice of the decision to the applicant.
The notice shall include a summary of the decision.
f) The County shall record notice of the Board decision in the county deed records.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

10.25.07 Board Decision Effect.
a) Pursuant to Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004), and notwithstanding any other law, rule, ordinance,
resolution, goal or other enforceable enactment of the County, and notwithstanding any other procedure for
release, exception, or otherwise in Yamhill County ordinances or regulations, the Board is authorized to
modify, remove, or not to apply a challenged land use regulation by Board Order pursuant to this ordinance
when the Board, in its discretion, elects to do so rather than paying just compensation to the property owner.
b) Any modification, removal, or discontinued application of a land use regulation shall be in effect during such
time as the owner owns the subject property and shall automatically cease when the property is owned by a
Chapter 10.25: Yamhill County Measure 37 Code  Page 6 of 6
new owner. Following termination of ownership of the property by the owner that made application under
this ordinance, the discontinued regulation or any subsequent amendments shall be reinstated and apply to the
property. Thereafter, the new property owner shall be deemed to hold the property as a non- conforming use
under the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance No, 310, as amended.
c) If the Board grants an Order modifying, removing, or discontinuing application of a challenged land us e
regulation as a means to avoid having to compensate, or as a means to limit compensation to, an owner under
the provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004), and if, based on a final
appellate court interpretation or invalidation of the provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure
37 (November 2, 2004), in the same or any other case, the applying owner was not entitled to compensation
in relation to the modified, removed, or discontinued challenged land use regulation, then the Order shall be
deemed to have been invalid and ineffective as of and after the date of the Board's Order. Any such invalidity
and ineffectiveness shall be limited as necessary to avoid the County being required to compensate the owner
under the provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004).
d) Any modification, removal, or discontinued application of a challenged land use regulation Order granted
under this ordinance shall terminate automatically on the occurrence of any event which determines the owner
or future owner of the private real property that is the subject of the modified, removed, or discontinued
application of a challenged land use regulation Order would not be entitled to just compensation under the
provisions added to ORS Chapter 197 by Ballot Measure 37 (November 2, 2004) in relation to the land use
regulation made inapplicable by the Board Order issued in response to the application.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

10.25.08 Severability. All sections, subsections, and paragraphs of this ordinance are severable. If any section,
subsection, or paragraph is ruled invalid for any reason by the court of last resort, the other parties of this ordinance
shall be unaffected.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 749 eff 12/02/04]

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

Adopted via Ordinance No. 749 on 12/02/2004, effective 12/02/2004
 Amended via Ordinance No. 762 on 03/02/2004, effective 03/02/2004