Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-1

SECTION 500  RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS

502. VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (VLDR-5, VLDR-2 , VLDR-1)  [Last Amended 06/29/23; Ord. 928]

502.01 Purpose.

The purpose of the VLDR Districts is to provide for medium-to-high density rural residential
development on selected lands identified as Very Low Density Residential in the Comprehensive Plan.
The VLDR Districts are intended to accommodate rural residential development at an anticipated
magnitude or density level that does not require more than a very basic level of services, such as single
local-road access, individual domestic wells and sewage-disposal systems, and rural fire protection.
Ultimate density limitations in VLDR Districts shall be determined in part by prevailing lot sizes, and
limitations of domestic water sources or soil conditions for subsurface sewage disposal.  Oppor-
tunities for small-scale or intensive farm and forestry activities compatible with rural residential uses
shall be encouraged in the VLDR Districts.  In areas immediately adjacent to urban centers, the
VLDR Districts are intended as transitional zones between F-80, EF-20, -40 or -80, AF-20, -40 or -80
and AF-10 Districts and higher-density LDR Districts or urban districts identified in city
comprehensive plans.    [Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

502.02 Permitted Uses.

In the VLDR Districts, the following uses shall be permitted subject to the standards and limitations
set forth in subsection 502.06:

A. Farm uses. The number of livestock and other animals that may be raised on a parcel is subject
to the limitations in subsection 502.06(J); [Amended 3/19/98, Ord. 643; 7/9/98, Ord 648]

B. Propagation and harvesting of Christmas trees;

C. Principal Dwelling;

D. Subdivisions, subject to the land division requirements set forth in Ordinance 205;

E. Residential planned unit developments, subject to Section 903 of this ordinance and the land
division requirements set forth in Ordinance 205;

F. Accessory uses;

G. Temporary structures as may be required during construction of an authorized permanent
structure.  Such temporary structure shall be removed upon final inspection of the permanent
structure by the Building Inspector;

H. Manufactured home storage and temporary sales offices for permitted uses, pursuant to the
Type A application procedure set forth in Section 1301 and subject to Section 1009 for
temporary permits;

I. Signs, pursuant to the sign provisions set forth in Section 1006;

J. Residential home or a registered or certified family child care home;  [Amended 5/24/12; Ord. 872]

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-2

K. Propagation and harvesting of forest products; and [Added 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

L. Accessory dwelling unit subject to the Type A application procedure set forth in Section 1301
and the standards in Section 1014.      [Amended 06/29/23; Ord. 928]

502.03 Conditional Uses.

In the VLDR Districts, pursuant to the Type B application procedure set forth in Section 1301, and
subject to the conditional use review criteria listed in Section 1202, and any other applicable criteria
established by this ordinance, the following uses may be allowed conditionally:

A. One manufactured dwelling or recreational vehicle, or the temporary use of an existing
building, in conjunction with as existing dwelling as a temporary use for the term of a
hardship suffered by the existing resident or relative, as defined in ORS 215, of the resident,
subject to the following:

1. The resident or relative of the resident is aged, infirm, or for health-related reasons, is
incapable of maintaining a complete separate residence.

2. The permit for the manufactured dwelling for the term of hardship shall be valid for a
period of two years or a shorter period as determined appropriate by the Director or
hearings body.  A permit may be revoked by the Director at any time, if any of the
reasons for which the permit was granted are no longer applicable, or if any imposed
condition is violated.

3. The permit for the temporary dwelling for the term of hardship shall be granted to the
applicant only and shall not be deemed to run with the land.

4. The temporary dwelling shall use the same subsurface sewage disposal system as the
existing dwelling, if that disposal system is adequate to accommodate the additional
dwelling.

5. When a recreational vehicle is allowed to be used as a temporary structure the
recreational vehicle site shall have services, inspected and approved by the building
department which includes electricity, plumbing and connection to an approved septic
system.

6. Within three months of the end of the hardship, the manufactured dwelling shall be
removed or demolished or, in the case of an existing building, the building shall be
removed, demolished or returned to an allowed nonresidential use.  In the case of a
recreational vehicle, within three months of the end of the hardship, it shall be
removed, demolished or may remain on the property and used in accordance with
Section 501.06(H). A temporary residence approved under this paragraph is not
eligible for replacement. [Amended 07/29/04; Ord. 743]

B. Home occupation, as defined by this ordinance, subject to the standards and limitations set
forth in Section 1004.

C. Operations conducted for the exploration of oil, natural gas or geothermal resources subject to
the requirements in subsection 404.10;

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-3
D. Kindergarten in conjunction with a principal dwelling on the same parcel, subject to the
standards for day care facilities set forth in Section 1008; [Amended 5/24/12; Ord. 872]

E. Community or municipal water-supply system, except within acknowledged service
boundaries;

F. Community or municipal sanitary-sewer system;

G. Utility facility, subject to Section 1101 for site design review;

H. Public or private school, including all buildings essential to the operation of a school, subject
to Section 1101, Site Design Review; and [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]

I. Church, subject to Section 1101, Site Design Review. [Amended 8/13/98, Ord. 657]

J. A church may offer overnight camping space on institution property to homeless persons
living in vehicles provided there are three or fewer vehicles and campers have access to
sanitary facilities including but not limited to toilet, hand washing and trash disposal facilities.  [Added 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

K. Park, playground, recreational area or open space which is publicly or privately owned,
operated or maintained, including fishing and wildlife preserves but excluding hunting
preserves. [Added 05/25/04; Ord. 741]

L. Community Centers. [Added 09/02/04; Ord. 746]

M. Residential facility as defined in ORS 197.660. [Added 09/02/04; Ord. 746]

502.04 Prohibited Uses.

Uses of land and water not specifically mentioned in this section shall be prohibited in the VLDR Dis-
tricts.

502.05 Nonconforming Uses.

Nonconforming uses found in the VLDR Districts are subject to the nonconforming use provisions of
Section 1205 as well as any other applicable provisions of this ordinance.

502.06 Standards and Limitations.

In the VLDR Districts, the following standards and limitations shall apply:

A. Dwelling Density.

1. Permitted Uses.

(a) The maximum overall dwelling density for any new development shall not
exceed:

i. one (1) dwelling per five (5) acres in the VLDR-5 District;

ii. one (1) dwelling per two and one-half (2 ) acres in the VLDR-2
District; and

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-4

     iii. one (1) dwelling per acre in the VLDR-1 District.

(b) Not more than one (1) principal dwelling shall be permitted on any parcel,
except in the case of a planned unit development and except as follows:

i. one (1) duplex may be allowed on any ten (10) acre parcel in the
VLDR-5 District.

ii. one (1) duplex may be allowed on any five (5) acre parcel in the
VLDR-2  District; and

    iii. one (1) duplex may be allowed on any two (2) acre parcel in the
VLDR-1 District.

(c) For the division of any contiguous lands under the same ownership, parcel
sizes may be averaged provided that the maximum overall density of the
applicable VLDR District is not exceeded, and provided that no parcel shall
be below the applicable minimum parcel size established by subsection
502.06(B).  In the case of parcel-size averaging, the landowner shall record
an affidavit with the county clerk specifying the imposed conditions which are
applicable to the newly-created parcels, including overall residential density,
etc.

2. Conditional Uses.

Not more than one (1) secondary dwelling shall be permitted on any parcel.

B. Parcel Size and Dimension.

1. VLDR-5 District.

(a) Newly-Created Parcels.  The minimum size of any newly-created parcel shall
be five (5) acres, except as follows:

i. In the case of parcel-size averaging, the minimum parcel size shall be
two and one-half (2 ) acres;

ii. In the case of a duplex, the minimum parcel size shall be (10) acres;
and

       iii. In the case of a duplex or multi-family planned unit development, the
minimum parcel size shall be twenty (20) acres.

(b) Pre-existing Lots of Record.  Any permitted or conditional use provided for
in this District may be established on a substandard pre-existing lot of record,
subject to the applicable requirements of this section. In addition, prior to
issuance of a building permit for a principal dwelling, the provisions of
Section 1204 shall be satisfied.

(c) Depth-to-Width Ratio.  The maximum depth-to-width ratio for any newly-
created parcel shall be 3:1.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-5
2. VLDR-2 .

(a) Newly-Created Parcels.  The minimum size of any newly-created parcel shall
be two and one-half (2 ) acres, except as follows:

i. in the case of parcel-size averaging, the minimum parcel size shall be
one (1) acre; and

ii. in the case of a duplex, the minimum parcel shall be five (5) acres;
and

       iii. in the case of a residential planned unit development, the minimum
parcel size shall be ten (10) acres.

(b) Pre-existing Lots of Record.  Any permitted or conditional use provided for
in this District may be established on a substandard pre-existing lot of record,
subject to the applicable requirements of this section.  In addition, prior to
issuance of a building permit for a principal dwelling, the provisions of
Section 1204 shall be satisfied.

(c) Depth-to-Width Ratio.  The maximum depth-to-width ratio for any newly-
created parcel shall be 3:1.

3. VLDR-1.

(a) Newly-Created Parcels.  The minimum size of any newly-created parcel shall
be one (1) acre, except as follows:

i. in the case of parcel-size averaging, the minimum parcel size shall be
20,000 square feet; and

ii in the case of a duplex, the minimum parcel size shall be two (2)
acres; and

       iii. in the case of a residential planned unit development, the minimum
parcel size shall be five (5) acres.

(b) Pre-existing Lots of Record.  Any permitted or conditional use provided for
in this District may be established on a substandard pre-existing lot of record,
subject to the applicable requirements of this section.  In addition, prior to
issuance of a building permit for a principal dwelling, the provisions of
Section 1204 shall be satisfied.

(c) Depth-to-Width Ratio.  The maximum depth-to-width ratio for any newly-
created parcel shall be 3:1.

C. Setbacks.

The following setback requirements apply to all VLDR Districts unless varied or waived by a
planned unit development, subject to Section 903:

1. Front Yard.  The minimum front yard setback shall be thirty (30) feet except as
follows:

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-6

(a) No dwelling shall be located within one hundred (100) feet of the property
line of an existing extraction or mining operation nor less than two hundred
(200) feet from an existing extraction operation.

(b) The minimum setback for all yards for signs shall be five (5) feet; and

(c) No structure housing livestock shall be located within fifty (50) feet of any
front parcel line, twenty-five (25) feet of any other parcel line, and forty (40)
feet of any dwelling.

2. Side and Rear Yard.  The minimum side and rear yard setbacks shall be fifteen (15)
feet, except as provided in this subsection.

3. An accessory structure not more than fifteen (15) feet in height, at least sixty (60) feet
from a road, and at least ten (10) feet from any dwelling may be located a minimum
distance of three (3) feet from the property line in a side yard or rear yard.

4. A swimming pool may be located in a required rear yard, provided it lies a minimum
of five (5) feet from the rear property line.

5. Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of
any yard, subject to the clear-vision area requirements of subsection 502.06(F).  [Subsection C amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

D. Parcel Coverage.

For any parcel of one (1) acre or more, but less than ten (10) acres, the maximum parcel
coverage shall be ten (10) percent.  For any parcel of less than one (1) acre, the maximum
parcel coverage shall be fifteen (15) percent.

E. Access.

Before a dwelling may be established on any parcel as provided in this section, the parcel shall
have a legal, safe and passable means of access by abutting at least twenty (20) feet either
directly upon a public road, or by a private easement which is at least thirty (30) feet in width
for its entire length and which also abuts upon a public road for at least thirty (30) feet.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to vary or waive the requirements for creation of
new access contained in any Land Division Ordinance legally adopted by Yamhill County.

F. Clear-Vision Areas.

A clear-vision area shall be maintained on the corner of any parcel at the intersection of any
two of the following: County roads, public roads, private roads serving four or more parcels;
and railroads.  A clear-vision area shall contain no sight-obscuring structures or planting
exceeding thirty (30) inches in  within a triangle formed by the lot corner nearest the intersec-
tion, and the two points twenty (20) feet from this corner as measured along the parcel lines
adjacent to the intersecting rights-of-way.  Trees exceeding this may be located such that their
branches extend into this triangle, provided they are maintained to allow at least twelve (12)
feet of visual clearance within the triangle below the lowest hanging branches.

G. Height.

  Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 502-7
1. The maximum building height for any dwelling shall be thirty-five (35) feet;
 [Amended 4/9/97; Ord. 624]

2. The maximum building height for all other structures shall be forty-five (45) feet,
except for accessory structures on any parcel of less than ten (10) acres the maximum
building height shall be thirty-five (35) feet; and [Amended 4/9/97; Ord. 624]

3. Appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for
human occupancy such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators,
chimneys and wind generators are not subject to the height limitations of this
ordinance.

H. Occupancy of Recreational Vehicles.

One (1) recreational vehicle shall be permitted to be parked on any parcel in conjunction with
a principal dwelling, and may be used for the temporary accommodation of guests for a period
of up to 30 days total in any year.  In no case shall any recreational vehicle be used as a
principal dwelling or rented unless and until the necessary permits have been obtained.  [Amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]

I. Off-Street Parking.

1. In the VLDR Districts, prior to establishment of any dwelling, sufficient area must be
provided to allow for at least one (1) emergency vehicle turnaround; and

2. Parking requirements for those uses which may generate traffic beyond what is
normally expected in the VLDR Districts, including multi-family dwellings, shall be
determined by the Director subject to the provisions of Section 1007.

J. Livestock.

The keeping of livestock shall be allowed subject to the following restrictions:

1. On any parcel of one-half () acre or less, the total number of fowl, rabbits and other
similar small animals shall not exceed twenty-five (25) and no other livestock of any
kind shall be permitted;

2. On any parcel of less than ten (10) acres, the total number of animal units shall not
exceed one (1) for each one (1) acre of parcel area.  Animal units shall be counted as
follows: horse 1.0, cow over 18 months old 1.0, calf 0.6, cow and calf pair 1.35, sheep
0.2, pig 0.5 and goat 0.2. [Amended 12/05/02; Ord. 720]

3. On any parcel of less than ten (10) acres, the total number of fowl, rabbits and other
similar small animals shall not exceed twenty-five (25), plus one (1) for each five
hundred (500) square feet of parcel area in excess of one-half () acre and the total
number of bee colonies shall not exceed one (1) per two thousand (2,000) square feet
of parcel area;

4. All livestock shall be properly fenced and contained so as to minimize adverse
impacts to surrounding property owners; and

5. All animal food shall be stored in metal or other rodent-proof receptacles.