OREGON
GOVERNMENT ETHICS
LAW

A GUIDE FOR PUBLIC OFFICIALS

Oregon Government Ethics Commission
3218 Pringle Rd. SE, Suite 220
Salem, OR  97302-1544
Telephone:  503-378-5105
Fax:  503-373-1456
Web address:  www.oregon.gov/ogec

DISCLAIMER

This guide has been approved by the Oregon Government Ethics Commission pursuant to
ORS 244.320.  ORS 244.320 requires this publication to explain in understandable terms
the requirements of Oregon Government Ethics law and the Oregon Government Ethics
Commission’s interpretation of those requirements.  Toward that end, statutes and rules
have been summarized and paraphrased in this guide.  Therefore, the discussion in this
guide should not be used as a substitute for a review of the specific statutes and rules.

Any public official, business or any person shall not be liable under ORS Chapter 244 for
any action or transaction carried out in accordance with Commission opinions set forth in
this guide.  “In accordance with” the opinions means that the fact circumstances of any
action or transaction for which any public offi cial, business or person shall not be liable
must be the same fact circumstances for an action or transaction described in this guide as
the basis for an opinion in this guide.

There may be other laws or regulations not within the jurisdiction of the Commission that
apply to actions or transactions described in this guide.
Public Official Guide  Page ii

Public Official Guide  Page iii

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

Introduction ............................................................................................................ 1

Jurisdiction  ............................................................................................................ 2

Public Official: An Overview ................................................................................... 3
 Are You a Public Offici al? ............................................................................ 5
 Volunteers as P ublic Officials ...................................................................... 5
 Relatives of P ublic Officials ......................................................................... 6
 A Business Associated With  a Public Official .............................................. 8

Use of Position or Office ......................................................................................... 9

Nepotism ................................................................................................................ 14

Private Employment by Public Officials .................................................................. 16

Private Employment of Former Public Officials ...................................................... 17
 Contracts of Former P ublic Employer .......................................................... 17
 Post-Public Employment  Waiting Periods .................................................... 17

Conflicts Of Interest ................................................................................................ 21

Legal Expense Trust Fund ..................................................................................... 25

Gifts ..................................................................................................................... 26
 Gifts as an Exception to the Use of Office Prohibition ................................. 33

Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest .................................................... 38
 SEI Fo rm ..................................................................................................... 39

Commission ........................................................................................................... 41
 Written Advice /Opinions .............................................................................. 42
 No “Safe Ha rbor” ......................................................................................... 43
 Procedures  .................................................................................................. 44

Index ..................................................................................................................... 47

Public Official Guide  Page 1
INTRODUCTION

In 1974, voters approved a statewide ballot measure to create the Oregon Government
Ethics Commission (Commission). The measure es tablished laws that are contained in
Chapter 244 of the Oregon Revised Statutes (ORS).

When the Commission was established, it was given jurisdiction to implement and enforce
the provisions in ORS Chapter 244 related to the conduct of public officials.  In addition, the
Commission has jurisdiction for ORS 171. 725 through 171.992, related to lobbying
regulations, and ORS 192.660, wh ich are the executive se ssion provisions of Oregon
Public Meetings law.

The Commission publishes a guide for lobbyists and clients or employers of lobbyists
regulated under provisions in ORS Chapter 171.  This guide for public officials includes a
discussion of some provisions that may also apply to lobbying activities, which are
addressed by Lobbying Regulations.  This is  especially true when a lobbying activity
involves paying the expenses for meals, lodging,  travel, entertainment or other financial
benefits of a legislative or executive official.  Under specific circumstances, ORS Chapter
244 would allow the payment of such expenses, but the public official may have a reporting
requirement under ORS Chapter 244 and the source of the payment may be required to
register as a lobbyist or report the expenditure.  If you have questions regarding registering
as a lobbyist, lobbying activity or reports fo r lobbying expenditures, please refer to our
Guide to Lobbying in Oregon.

ORS 192.660 lists the specific criteria a governing body must use when convening an
executive session.  The statut ory authority for executive sessi ons is limited to specific
topics or procedures.  This guide does not discuss that portion of  the Oregon Public
Meetings law, but there is a detailed discussion of ORS 192.660 in the Attorney General’s
Public Records and Meetings Manual, available on-line at
www.doj.state.or.us/public_records/manual.shtml
.

This guide will discuss how the provisions in ORS Chapter 244 apply to public officials and
will summarize Commission procedures.  It should be used in conjunction with applicable
statutes and rules.  It is intended to be a useful discussion, in understandable terms, of
topics and issues that are often the focus of inquiries the Commission receives from public
officials and citizens.  This guide should not be used as a substitute for a review of the
specific statutes and rules.

You will find links to ORS Chapter 244, ORS Chapter 171.725 through 171.992, relevant
Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR), and other publications referenced in this guide on the
Commission’s website at www.oregon.gov/ogec
.  Questions or comments may be
submitted to the Commission by email at ogec.mail@state.or.us, by fax to 503-373-1456 or
by telephone to 503-378-5105.

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 2
JURISDICTION

The jurisdiction of the Oregon Government Ethics Commission is limited to provisions in
ORS Chapter 244, ORS 171.725 through 171.992 and ORS 192.660.  Other Oregon
statutes may also regulate the activities of elected officials and public employees.  Some
examples are:

• The Elections Division of t he Secretary of State’s Office regulates campaign finance
and campaign activities.

• Criminal activity of any type would fall under  the jurisdiction of federal, state or local
law enforcement.

• The Commission does not have jurisdiction over the laws that govern public
meetings or records, except for the executive session provisions in ORS 192.660.

• The Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industrie s investigates cases involving
employment related sexual  harassment or discriminat ion on the basis of race,
religion, disability or gender.

There are occasions when a public official  engages in conduct that may be viewed as
unethical, but that conduct may not be gov erned by Oregon Government Ethics law.
Without an apparent statutory vi olation, the following are so me examples of conduct by
public officials that are not within the authority of the Commission to address:

• An elected official making promises or claims that are not acted upon.

• Public officials mismanagi ng or exercising poor judgment when administering public
money.

• Public officials being rude or unmannerly.

• Public officials using deception or misrepresenting information or events.

While the conduct described above may not be addressed in Oregon Government Ethics
law, public agency policies and procedures may prohibit or redress the behavior.  Please
contact the Commission staff if you need furt her clarification regarding how the Oregon
Government Ethics law may apply to circumstances you may encounter.

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 3
PUBLIC OFFICIAL:  AN OVERVIEW

The provisions in Oregon Government Ethics la w restrict some choices, decisions or
actions of a public official.  The restrictions placed on public officials are different than those
placed on private citizens because service in  a public office is a public trust and the
provisions in ORS Chapter 244 were enacted to provide one safeguard for that trust.

Public officials must know that they are held personally responsible for complying with the
provisions in Oregon Government Ethics law.  This means that each public official must
make a personal judgment in deciding such matters as the use of official position for
financial gain, what gifts are appropriate to accept, or when to disclose the nature of
conflicts of interest.  If a public official fails to comply with the operative statutes, a violation
cannot be dismissed by placing the blame on the public official’s government employer or
the governing body represented by the public official.

Since compliance is the personal responsibility of each public official, public officials need
to familiarize themselves with the wide variety of resources that offer information or training
on the provisions in Oregon Government Ethics law.  First, there are the statutes in ORS
Chapter 244 and the Oregon Administrative Rule s (OAR) in Chapter 199.  Second, the
Commission website, www.oregon.gov/ogec
, offers information, training and links to this
guide, ORS Chapter 244 and OAR Chapter 199.  Many government agencies offer training
or the agency may request it fr om the Commission’s trainers.  There are a number of
membership organizations, such as The League of Oregon Cities, Association of Oregon
Counties, Oregon School Boards Association and Oregon Special Districts Association that
provide training to public officials from thei r government members.  It is imperative for
government agencies or organizations that employ or represent public officials to ensure
their public officials receive training in Oregon Government Ethics law.  Those that fail to
provide this training do a disservice to the public officials who they employ or who represent
them.

One provision, which is the cornerstone of Oregon Government Ethics law, prohibits public
officials from using or attempting to use their official positions or offices to obtain a financial
benefit for themselves, relatives or busi nesses they are associated with through
opportunities that would not otherwise be available but for the position or office held.

Public officials are allowed to receive sa lary and reimbursed expenses from their own
government agencies.  Under specific conditions public officials may also accept gifts.  This
guide will discuss those provisions.

Another provision that frequently applies to public officials when engaged in official actions
of their official positions or offices is the requirement to disclose the nature of conflicts of
interest.  This guide will discuss the definition of a conflict of interest and describe the
methods a public official must follow when met with a conflict of interest.

There is a requirement for some public officials who are elected to offices or hold other
select positions to file an Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest form.  This guide

Public Official Guide  Page 4
will discuss that filing requirement.

It is important for both public officials and members of the general public served by public
officials to know that the provisions in Oregon Government Ethics law apply to the actions
and conduct of individual public officials and not the actions of state and local governing
bodies or government agencies.  Each individual public official is personally responsible for
complying with provisions in  ORS Chapter 244.  The statutes and rules discussed or
illustrated in this guide do not  and cannot address every set of  circumstances a public
official may encounter.  When a public official is anticipating an official action or
participation in an official event they must make a personal judgment as to the propriety of
the action or the participation.  The Commission staff is available to discuss the issues and
offer guidance in making such judgments.

Oregon Government Ethics law addresses a wide range of actions, situations or events
which a public official may encounter while serving a state or local government.  This guide
provides a discussion of the provisions that apply to circumstances that most public officials
may encounter.

*****

A PUBLIC OFFICIAL

Are you a public official?

“Public official” is defined in ORS 244. 020(14) as any person who, when an alleged
violation of ORS Chapter 244 occurs, is serving the State of Oregon or any of its political
subdivisions or any other pub lic body as defined in ORS 174.109 as an elected official,
appointed official, employee or agent, irrespective of whether the person is compensated
for the services.

There are approximately 200,000 public officials in Oregon.  You are a public official if you
are:

• Elected or appointed to an office or positi on with a state, county or city government.

• Elected or appointed to an office or position with a special district.

• An employee of a state, county or city agency or special district.

• An unpaid volunteer for a state, count y or city agency or special district.

• Anyone serving the State of Oregon or any of  its political subdivisions, such as the
State Accident Insurance Fund or the Oregon Health & Science University.

The Commission has adopted, by rule, additional language used to clarify the use of “agent
in the definition of “public official.”  The following is OAR 199-005-0035(7):

“As defined in ORS 244.020(14), a public official includes anyone serving the State
of Oregon or any of its political subdivisions or any other public body in any of the
listed capacities, including as an “agen t.” An “agent” means any individual
performing governmental functions. Governmental functions are services provided
on behalf of the government as distinguished from services provided to the
government. This may include private contractors and volunteers, depending on the
circumstances. This term shall be interpreted to be consistent with Attorney General
Opinion No. 8214 (1990).”

If I am a volunteer, does that make me a public official?

If the position for which you have volunteered se rves the State of Oregon or any of its
political subdivisions or any other public  body, “irrespective of whether” you are
“compensated” you are a public official.  It is difficult to determine how many public officials
are volunteers, but the num ber may approach 50,000.  Vol unteers may be elected,
appointed or selected by the government agency or public body to hold a position or office
or to provide services.

Among the public officials who volunteer, there are elected or appointed members of
Public Official Guide  Page 5

Public Official Guide  Page 6
governing bodies of state boards or commissions, city councils, planning commissions, fire
districts, school districts and many others.   There are also many who apply and are
selected to perform duties for a gover nment agency, board or commission without
compensation, such as fire fighters, rese rve law enforcement officers and parks or
recreation staff members.

The Commission recognizes that there are many who volunteer to work without
compensation for many state and local government agencies, boards, commissions and
special districts.  This guide provides criteria to identify volunteers who will be considered
public officials when applying the provisions in ORS Chapter 244.

If any one of the following elements apply to a volunteer position, the person holding that
volunteer position will be defined as a “public official”:

• Elected or appointed to a governing body of a public body

• Appointed or selected for a position wit h a governing body or a government agency
with responsibilities that include deciding or voting on matters that could have a
pecuniary impact on the governing body, agency or other persons

• The volunteer position includes all of the following:

1. Responsible for specific duties
2. The duties are performed at a scheduled time and designated place.
3. Volunteer is provided with the use of the public agency’s resources and
equipment.
4. The duties performed would have a pecuniary impact on any person,
business or organization served by the public agency.

For purposes of ORS Chapter 244, volunteers are not public officials if they perform such
tasks as picking up litter on public lands, participating in a scheduled community cleanup of
buildings or grounds, participating in locating and eradicating invasive plants from public
lands and other such occasional or seasonal events.

How are relatives of public officials affected by Oregon Government Ethics law?

Public officials must always comply with state law when participating in official actions that
could result in personal financial benefits and also when participating in official actions that
could result in financial benefits for a relative.  Public officials should also know there may
be limits and restrictions on gifts their relatives may accept when offered.

There are provisions in ORS Chapter 244 that restrict or prohibit a public official from using
or attempting to use official actions of the position held to benefit a relative; or may limit the
value of financial benefits accepted by a relative  of the public official or may require the
public official to disclose the nature of a conflict of interest when a relative may receive a
financial benefit.  These provisions are discussed more comprehensively in the use of

Public Official Guide  Page 7
position or office section starting on page 9, the gifts section starting on page 26 and the
conflicts of interest section starting on page 21.

Who is a relative?

Public officials need to know how Oregon Government Ethics law defines who a “relative”
is.  In everyday conversation the use of “re lative” is applied to a broader spectrum of
individuals with “family ties” than those defined as relatives in ORS 244.020(15).  When a
provision in ORS Chapter 244 refers to “relative” it means one of the following:

• Spouse of a public official or candidate
• Children of a public official or candidate
• Children of the spouse of a public official or candidate
• Siblings of a public official or candidate
• Siblings of the spouse of a public official or candidate
• Spouse of siblings of a public official or candidate
• Spouse of siblings of the spouse of a public official or candidate
• Parents of the of public official or candidate
• Parents of the spouse of a public official or candidate
• Person for whom the public official or candidate has a legal support obligation
• Person benefiting from a public official when benefits are from the public official’s
public employment
• Person who provides benefits to a public official or candidate when benefits are
from the person’s employment

For purposes of “relatives” defined by the last two bulleted items, examples of benefits may
include, but not be limited to, elements of an official compensation package including
benefits such as insurance, tuition or retirement allotments.

How do the laws apply to a public official who either owns or is employed by a
private business?

As with the definition of relative, public officials need to know how Oregon Government
Ethics law defines what a “bus iness” is or what a “business with which the person is
associated is.”  The same sound judgment a public official exercises when participating in
actions that could result in a financial benefit to the public official or a relative of the public
official should be used when participating in actions that could result in a financial benefit to
a business with which the public official or the relative is associated.

There are provisions in ORS Chapter 244 that restrict or prohibit a public official from using
actions of the position held to benefit a business with which the public official or a relative is
associated.  The provisions may also require the public official to disclose the nature of a
conflict of interest when a business may receive a financial benefit.

ORS 244.020(2) provides the definition of a “business,” paraphrased as follows:

Public Official Guide  Page 8
A “business” is a legal entity that has been formed for the purpose of producing income.

• Excluded from this definition are income -producing organizations that are not-for-
profit and tax exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, if a public
official or a relative of the public official holds membership or an unpaid position as a
member of the board of directors.

• It is important to remember that state and local government or special district entities
are not formed for the purpos e of producing income, which means they are not
businesses.

ORS 244.020(3) provides the definition of a “business with which the person is
associated,” paraphrased as follows:

In brief, a public official or the relative of the public official is associated with a business in
the following circumstances:

• When, during the preceding calendar year, a public official or relative has held a
position as director, officer, owner, empl oyee or agent of a pr ivate business or a
closely held corporation in which the public official or relative held or currently holds
stock, stock options, equity interest or debt instrument over $1,000.

• When, during the preceding ca lendar year, the public official or relative has owned
or currently owns stock, equity interes t, stock options or de bt instruments of
$100,000 or more in a publicly held corporation.

• When the public official or relative is a director or officer of a publicly held
corporation.

• When a public official is required by ORS 244.050 to file an Annual Verified
Statement of Economic Interest form and t he business is listed as a source of
household income.

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 9
USE OF POSITION OR OFFICE

What are the provisions of law that prohibit a public official from using the position
or office held for financial gain?

As defined earlier, public officials becom e public officials through employment,
appointment, election or volunteering.  ORS 244.040(1) prohibits every public official
from using or attempting to use the posit ion held as a public official to obtain a
financial benefit, if the opportunity for the financial benefit would not otherwise be
available but for the position held by the public official.  The financial benefit prohibited
can be either an opportunity for gain or to avoid an expense.

Not only is a public official prohibited from using the position as a public official to receive
certain financial benefits, but the public official is prohibited from using or attempting to use
the position as a public official to obtain financial benefits for a relative or a member of the
public official’s household.  Also prohibited is the use or attempted use of the public official
position to obtain financial benefits for a business with which the public official, a relative, or
a member of the public official’s household is associated.

Public officials often have access to or manage information that is confidential and not
available to members of the general public.  ORS 244.040(4) specifically prohibits public
officials from attempting to use confidential information gained because of the position
held or by carrying out assigned duties to further the public official’s personal gain.  ORS
244.040(5) also prohibits a former public official from attempting to use confidential
information for personal gain if that confidential information was obtained while holding
the position as a public official, from whic h access to the confidential information was
obtained.

ORS 244.040(6) also has a single provision to address circumstances created when
public officials, who are members of the governing body of a public body, own or are
associated with a specific type of business.   The type of business is one that may
occasionally send a representative of the business who appears before the governing body
on behalf of a client for a fee.  Public officials who are members of governing bodies and
own or are employed by businesses, such as a law, engineering or architectural firm, may
encounter circumstances in which this provision may apply.  For example, a member of a
city council who is an architect has a developer as a client of the architect’s business.  If the
developer has a proposed subdivision to be approved by the city council, the architect may
not appear before the city council on behalf of the client developer.  Another person
representing the client developer on behalf of the architect’s business may appear, but not
the councilor/architect.

There are a variety of actions that a public o fficial may take or participate in that could
constitute the prohibited use or attempted use of the public official position.    The use of a
position could be voting in a public meeting, placing a signature on a government agency’s
document, making a recommendation, making a purchase with government agency funds,
conducting personal business on a government agency’s time or with a government

Public Official Guide  Page 10
agency’s resources [i.e. computers, vehicles, heavy equipment or office machines].

The following examples are offered to illustrate  what may constitute prohibited use or
attempted use:

• The mayor of a city signs a contract obligat ing the city to pay for janitorial services
provided by a business owned by a relative of the mayor.
• A city treasurer signs a city check payable to an office supply business that is owned
by a relative.
• A city billing clerk alters water use records so that the amount billed to the clerk’s
parents will be less than the actual amount due.
• A volunteer firefighter borrows the fire dist rict’s power washer to prepare the exterior
of the volunteer’s personal residence for painting.
• A county public works employee stores  a motor home that is owned by the
employee’s parents in a county building used for storing heavy equipment.
• An employee of a state agency has a private business and uses the agency’s
computer to advance the business by promoting, corresponding and managing the
activities of the private business.
• A school district superintendent appr oves and signs her own request for
reimbursement of personal expenses the superintendent incurred when conducting
official business.

NOTE:  While these examples are offered to illustrate the use of a public official’s position
prohibited by ORS 244.040(1), the practices in the examples may also illustrate occasions
where a public official may be met with a conflict of interest as defined in ORS 244.020(1)
and (12).  There are circumstanc es when a public official may comply with provisions in
ORS 244.040(1) while violating conflict of interest provisions in ORS 244.120 or the reverse
[ORS 244.040(7)].  Refer to the detailed discussion of conflicts of interest starting on page
21.

Are there any circumstances in which a pub lic official may use their position to
accept financial benefits that would not otherwise be available but for
 holding the
position as a public official?

Yes, ORS 244.040(2) provides a list of financial benefits t hat would not otherwise be
available to public officials but for holding t he position as a public official.  The following
financial benefits are not prohibited and may be accepted by a public official and some may
also be accepted by a public official’s relative or member of the public official’s household:

Official Compensation
:  Public officials may accept any financial benefit that is identified by
the public body served by the public official as part of the “official compensation package”
of the public official.  If the public body identifies such benefits as salary, health insurance
or various paid allowances in the employment  agreement or contract of a public official,
those financial benefits are part of the “official compensation package.” [ORS
244.040(2)(a)]

Public Official Guide  Page 11

OAR 199-005-0035(3) provides a definition of “official compensation package:”

An “official compensation package” means the wages and other benefits
provided to the public official. To be part of the public official's “official
compensation package”, the wages and benefits must have been specifically
approved by the public body in a formal manner, such as through a union
contract, an employment contract, or other adopted personnel policies that apply
generally to employees or other public officials. “Official compensation package”
also includes the direct payment of a public official's expenses by the public
body, in accordance with the public body's policies.

The Commission often receives complaints that allege that a public official is using or
attempting to the position held to gain fi nancial benefits prohibited by ORS 244.040(1).
Occasionally the financial benefits in these complaints are gained through the use of the
public body’s resources.  Some examples are use of a vehicle for personal transportation,
use of a computer for a personal private business enterprise or use of telecommunications
equipment for personal business.  Some respondents to complaints that involve the use a
public body’s resources will defend their us e as being consistent with an informal
longstanding practice.  The financial benefit to a public official, from the use of a public
body’s resources, from what may be understood as an informal and longstanding practice
does not meet the definition of part of an “official compensation package.”  This is because
the practice has not been specifically approved by the public body in a formal manner.

Reimbursement of Expenses
:  A public official may acc ept payments from the public
official’s public body as reimbursement for expenses the public official has personally paid
while conducting the public body’s business [ORS 244.040(2)(c)].

The Commission has provided a definition in OAR 199-005-0035(4):

The “‘reimbursement of expenses’ means the payment by a public body to a
public official serving that public body, of expenses incurred in the conduct of
official duties on behalf of the public body. Any such repayment must comply with
any applicable laws and policies governing the eligibility of such repayment.”

There are occasions when someone will refer to the payment of a public official’s
expenses by a person or entity other than the public official’s public body as a
reimbursement of expenses.  That is not the reimbursement of expenses as used in
ORS 244.040(2)(c) and defined in OAR 199-005-0035(4).  If the payment of a public
official’s personal expenses does not meet this definition, it may be a financial benefit
prohibited or restricted by other provisions in ORS Chapter 244.

There are occasions when public officials are reimbursed for travel expenses the public
official has paid while conducting official duties on behalf of the public official’s public
body.  Sometimes the public body will prearrange for a public official’s travel and pay
the expenses in advance.  Such advance payments are also viewed by the Commission

Public Official Guide  Page 12
as the reimbursement of expenses allowed by ORS 244.040(2)(c).

Some public officials hold positions identified in ORS 244.050 as having a requirement
to file the Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest (SEI) form in April of each
year.  This requirement will be discussed elsewhere in this guide, but some who must
submit the SEI forms believe that travel related expenses paid by the public official’s
public body must be listed in the SEI form.  That is not true.  Expenses paid by the
public body to their own public officials need not be reported by the public official under
ORS 244.060 [OAR 199-005-0035(4)].

Honorarium
:  Public officials are allowed to accept honorarium by ORS 244.040(2)(b) as it
is defined in ORS 244.020(7).  A public official must know how honorarium is defined
because there are many occasions when someone will offer them a financial benefit and
call it an honorarium, but it does not meet the definition of honorarium in ORS 244.020(7).

A payment or something of economic value given to a public official in exchange for
services provided by the public official is an honorarium when the setting of the economic
value has been prevented by custom or propriety.  The services provided by a public official
may include but not be limited to speeches or other services provided in connection with an
event.  A public official may not accept  honorarium if the value exceeds $50 [ORS
244.042(3)(a)].

In brief, for a payment or something of economic value to be defined as an honorarium,
several conditions must be met:

• The offer of a payment or something of economic value c annot be arranged or
agreed to before the public official provides services.
• The services provided by the public offici al must precede the offer of payment or
something of economic value.
• The payment or something of economic va lue must be delivered in return for and
following the delivery of services.

Public officials may accept honorarium for services performed in relation to the private
profession of the public official, although public  officials must be sure, when they are
offered a payment or something of economic value and it is referred to as an honorarium,
that it does meet the definition in ORS 244.020(7).  If it does not meet this definition, it may
be a financial benefit prohibited or restricted by other provisions in ORS Chapter 244.

Awards for Professional Achievement
:  Public officials may accept an award, if the public
official has not solicited the award, and the aw ard is offered to recognize a professional
achievement of the public official [ORS 244.040(2)(d)].

Awards for professional achievement should not be confused with awards of appreciation,
allowed by ORS 244.020(6)(b)(C), honorarium allowed by ORS 244.040(2)(b), or gifts that
are allowed or restricted by other provisions in ORS Chapter 244.

Public Official Guide  Page 13
Awards for professional achievement are best illustrated by awards that denote national or
international recognition of a public officia l’s achievement.  These awards may also be
offered by public or private organizations in the state that are meant to recognize a public
official for an achievement.  Professional achievements recognized may be identified as a
single accomplishment or an accomplishment achieved during a period of time, such as a
calendar year or a public official’s career  upon retirement.  Pub lic officials may be
educators, lawyers, certified public accountants or may hold a doctorate in some field.
These public officials may receive awards recognizing achievements in their fields and
those awards would be cons idered by the Commission to be awards regulated by ORS
244.040(2)(d).

Contributions to Legal Expense Trust Fund
:  There are provisions in ORS 244.209 that
allow public officials who have become a respondent to a complaint under Oregon
Government Ethics law to establish a legal expense trust fund.  ORS 244.040(2)(h) allows
a public official who has established this trust fund to solicit, accept and be the trustee for
contributions to the established fund.

Gifts
:  Public officials may accept gifts [ORS 244.040(2)(e),(f) and (g)].  There are
circumstances in which there are no limits on the quantity or aggregate value of gifts that
can be accepted by a public official.  On the other hand, there are circumstances when the
aggregate value of gifts accepted by a public official is restricted.  There may also be
reporting requirements that apply to public officials who accept gifts and to sources that
provide the gifts.  Refer to the detailed discussion of issues related to gifts starting on page
26.

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 14
NEPOTISM

Does Oregon Government Ethics law prevent two or more relatives from being
employees of the same public body?

No.  Public officials who are relatives can be employed by the same public body employer
at the same time, or serve on the same governing body of a public body at the same time.

However, ORS Chapter 244 does address the issue of “nepotism.”  Nepotism, as used in
ORS Chapter 244, is based on the relative relationship alone.  The definition of “relative” in
ORS Chapter 244 [ORS 244.175(4)] takes on a broader meaning when applying ORS
244.175 through ORS 244.179:

• Spouse of a public official
• Children of the public official or spouse
• Parents of the public official or spouse
• Stepparents of the public official or spouse
• Stepchildren of the public official or spouse
• Brothers of the public official or spouse
• Sisters of the public official or spouse
• Half-brothers of the public official or spouse
• Half-sisters of the public official or spouse
• Brothers-in-law of the public official or spouse
• Sisters-in-law of the public official or spouse
• Sons-in-law of the public official or spouse
• Daughters-in-law of the public official or spouse
• Mothers-in-law of the public official or spouse
• Fathers-in-law of the public official or spouse
• Aunts of the public official or spouse
• Uncles of the public official or spouse
• Nieces of the public official or spouse
• Nephews of the public official or spouse

What are the provisions that address nepotism?

After complying with the conflict of interest provisions in ORS 244.120, public officials
cannot participate
 in any personnel action taken by the public agency that would impact the
employment of a relative or member of the public official’s household.  A public official may
not participate in the following [ORS 244.177(1)]:

• Appointing, employing or promoting
• Discharging, firing or demoting
• Interviewing
• Discussing or debating the appointment, employment, promotion, discharge, firing or
demotion

Public Official Guide  Page 15

NOTE:  Public officials who are elected members of the Oregon Legislative Assembly are
not prohibited from participating in employment actions taken on positions held by relatives
of the member’s personal staff [ORS 244.177(2)].

A public official who is assigned duties that include performing “ministerial acts” related to
any stage of a relative’s employment is not prohibited from performing such acts.
“Ministerial acts” would include mailing or filing forms or correspondence, taking and
relaying messages, scheduling appointments or preparing documents and minutes for
public meetings.

A public official may serve as a reference or provide a recommendation for a relative who
has applied for a position of employment, promotion or is subject to any personnel action.

If a public official has a relative or a mem ber of the public official’s household who has
applied to be or serves as an unpaid volunteer, the public official may participate in any
personnel action that involves the relative or member of the household.  This provision only
applies to unpaid volunteers who provide services to the public body and does not apply to
unpaid volunteers who serve or seek appointm ent to a governing body of a public body.
[ORS 244.177(3)(a) and (b)]

A public official may not directly supervise a person who is a relative or member of the
public official’s household [ORS 244.179], except when:

• The public official is an elected me mber of the Oregon Legislative Assembly
• The public official is supervising an unpaid volunteer for the public body

Volunteers who are relatives or members of  the household of a public official may be
supervised by the public official.  However, this would not apply if the volunteer position is
as a member of the governing body of the public body. [ORS 244.179(3)]

ORS 244.179(4) allows a public body to adopt policies that specify when a public official,
acting in an official capacity for the public body, may directly supervise a person who is a
relative or member of the public official’s household.

*****

PRIVATE EMPLOYMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICIAL

Does Oregon Government Ethics law prohibit a public official from owning a private
business or working for a pri vate employer while continuing employment with or
holding a position with a public body?

No.  As mentioned earlier, many public officials are volunteers, meaning there is little or no
compensation for the public position.  Other public officials may receive compensation, but
choose to seek additional sources of income.  Some work for a private business and others
establish a private business of their own.  NOTE:  This guide does not address other
statutes or agency policies that may limit private employment for public officials.

ORS 244.040(3) prohibits a public official from, directly or indirectly, soliciting or accepting
the promise of future employment based on the understanding that the offer is influenced
by the public official’s vote, official action or judgment.  Any employer who may directly or
indirectly offer employment under these conditions may also violate this provision.

In general, public officials may obtain employment with a private em ployer or engage in
private income producing activity of their own.  They must not use the position held as a
public official to create the opportunity for additional personal income.  The public official
must also ensure that there is a clear distinction between the use of personal resources
and time for personal income producing activity and the use of the public body’s time and
resources.  The Commission has created guidelines for public officials to follow in order to
avoid violating Oregon Government Ethics law when engaged in private employment or a
personally owned business.

GUIDELINES FOR OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS

1. Public officials are not to engage in priv ate business interests or other employment
activities on their governmental agency’s time.
2. A governmental agency’s supplies, facilitie s, equipment, employees, records or any
other public resources are not to be used to engage in private business interests.
3. The position as a public offi cial is not to be used to take official action that could
have a financial impact on a private business with which you, a relative or member
of your household are associated.
4. Confidential information gained as a public official is not to be used to obtain a
financial benefit for the public official, a relati ve or member of the public official’s
household or a business with which any are associated.
5. When participating in an official capacity and met with a potential or actual conflict of
interest related to a business, associat ed with the public official, relative or
household member, the public official must disclose the nature of the conflict of
interest using one of the following methods:
o Employees of governmental agencies mu st give written notice to their
appointing authority.
o Elected or appointed public officials mu st publicly disclose once during each
meeting convened by the governing body they serve.

*****
Public Official Guide  Page 16

EMPLOYMENT OF FORMER PUBLIC OFFICIALS

How would Oregon Government Ethics law a pply when a former public official is
employed by a business that has a contract with the public body previously
represented by the former public official?

For two years after a public official ceases  holding or being employed in a position as a
public official, that public official may not hav e a direct beneficial financial interest in a
public contract when one of the parties to the contract is the public official’s former public
body if the contract was authorized by [ORS 244.047(2) and (3)]:

• The former public official, who authorized t he contract while acting in the capacity
previously held as a public official.

• The former public official, as a member of a governing body [board, commission,
council, bureau, committee], participated
 in official action to approve the contract.

“Authorized by” is defined in OAR 199-005-0035( 6) as meaning that the former public
official had a significant role in the cont racting process to include participating on a
selection committee, recommending approval, voting, giving final authorization or signing a
contract.  The definition in the rule is as follows:

“As used in ORS 244.047, a public contract is “authorized by” a public official if
the public official performed a significant role in the selection of a contractor or
the execution of the contract. A significant role can include recommending
approval or signing of the contract, including serving on a selection committee or
team, or having the final authorizing authority for the contract.

What are the restrictions on employment after I resign, retire or leave my public
official position?

• ORS 244.040(1) prohibits public officials from using their official positions or offices
to create a new employment opportunity; otherwise, most former public officials may
enter the private work force with few restrictions.

• ORS 244.040(5) prohibits a former public offici al from attempting to use confidential
information for personal gain if the conf idential information was obtained while
holding the position as a public official.

• Oregon Government Ethics law restricts the subsequent employment of certain
public officials.  The restrictions apply to positions listed below:

ORS 244.045(1)

State Agencies:

Director of Department of Consumer and Business Services
Public Official Guide  Page 17

Public Official Guide  Page 18
Administrator of Division of Finance and Corporate Securities
Administrator of Insurance Division
Administrator of Oregon Liquor Control Commission
Director of Oregon State Lottery
Public Utility Commissioner

1. One year restriction on gaining financia l benefits from a private employer in
the activity, occupation or industry that was regulated by the agency for
which the public official was the Director, Administrator or Commissioner.

2. Two year restriction on lobbying or appearing as a representative before the
agency on behalf of the activity, occupat ion or industry regulated by the
agency for which the public official wa s the Director, Administrator or
Commissioner.

3. Two year restriction on disclosing confidential information gained as the
Director, Administrator or Commissioner for the agency.

ORS 244.045(2)

Oregon Department of Justice:

Deputy Attorney General
Assistant Attorney General

1. Restricted for two years from l obbying or appearing before an agency that
they represented while with the Department of Justice.

ORS 244.045(3)

Office of the Treasurer:

State Treasurer
Chief Deputy State Treasurer

1. Restricted for one year from accepti ng financial benefit from a private entity
with which there was negotiation or contract awarding $25,000 in one year by
the State Treasurer or Oregon Investment Council.

2. Restricted for one year from accepti ng financial benefit from a private entity
with which there was investment of  $50,000 in one year by the State
Treasurer or Oregon Investment Council.

3. Restricted for one year from being a l obbyist for an investment institution,
manager or consultant or from appear ing as a representative of an
investment institution, manager or consultant befor e the office of State
Treasurer or Oregon Investment Council.

Public Official Guide  Page 19
ORS 244.045(4)
Public Officials who invested public funds:

1. Restricted for two years from bei ng a lobbyist or appearing before the
agency, board or commission for which public funds were invested.

2. Restricted for two years from influenc ing or trying to influence the agency,
board or commission.

3. Restricted for two years from discl osing confidential information gained
through employment.

ORS 244.047
Public Officials who authorized a public contract:

1. A public official who authorized or had a significant role in a contract while
acting in an official capacity may not  have a direct, beneficial, financial
interest in the public contract for two years after leaving the official position.

2. A member of a board, commission, council, bureau, committee or other
governing body who has participated in the authorization of a public contract
may not have a direct, beneficial, financial interest in the public contract for
two years after leaving the official position.

OAR 199-005-0035(6) indicates that “authorized by” means that public official
performed a significant role in the selection of a contractor or the execution of
the contract. A significant role can include recommending approval of a
contract, serving on a selection committee or team, having the final
authorizing authority or signing a contract.

ORS 244.045(5)

Department of State Police

Supervising programs related to Native American tribal gaming
Supervising programs related to Oregon State Lottery

1. Restricted for one year from accepting employment from or gaining financial
benefit related to gaming from the Lottery or a Native American Tribe.

2. Restricted for one year from gaining financial benefit from a private employer
who sells gaming equipment or services.

3. Restricted for one year from trying to influence the Department of State
Police or from disclosing confidential information.

Exceptions include subsequent employment with the state police,

Public Official Guide  Page 20
appointment as an Oregon State Lottery Commissioner, Tribal Gaming
Commissioner or lottery game retailer, or personal gaming activities.

ORS 244.045(6)

Legislative Assembly

Representative
Senator

 After a legislator’s membership in the Legislative Assembly ends, a legislator
may not become a compensated lobby ist until adjournment of the next
regularly scheduled session of the Legislative Assembly following the end of
membership in the Legislative Assembly. [Note:  In 2008 and 2010, the first
special sessions are considered to be regular sessions.]

*****

CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

How does a public official know when they are met with a conflict of interest and, if
met with one, what must they do?

Oregon Government Ethics law identifies and defines two types of conflicts of interest.  An
actual conflict of interest is defined in ORS 244.020(1) and a potential conflict of
interest is defined in ORS 244.020(12).  In brief, a public official is met with a conflict of
interest when participating in official action which could or would result in a financial benefit
or detriment to the public official, a relative of the public official or a business with which
either is associated.

The difference between an actual conflict of  interest and a potential conflict of
interest is determined by the words “would” and “could.”  A public official is met with
an actual conflict of interest when the public official participates in action that would affect
the financial interest of the official, the official’s relative or a business with which the official
or a relative of the official is associated.  A public official is met with a potential conflict of
interest when the public official participates in action that could affect the financial interest
of the official, a relative of that official or a business with which the official or the relative of
that official is associated.  The following hypothetical circumstances are offered to illustrate
the difference between actual and potential conflicts of interest:

A city councilor is employed by a building supply business from which the city public
works director purchases building material s.  City payments on invoices must be
submitted to the city council and approved by  a vote.  The city councilor, who is
employed by the building supply business, while participating in a meeting, would be
met with an actual conflict of interest when the request to pay the invoice from the
business that employs the councilor is presented to the city council for official action.

A member of a fire district board of directors owns a sheetrock contracting business.
The fire district is planning to remodel a fire station in the district.  To reduce cost,
the district will manage the project and solicit bids from contractors for specified
work, such as the sheetrock that needs to be installed.  The member on the board of
directors, who is the contractor, while par ticipating in a meetin g of the board of
directors, would be met with a potential conflict of interest when the members
discuss or act on the invitation for bids on the sheetrock installation.

What if I am met with a conflict of interest
?

A public official must announce or disclose the nature of a conflict of interest.  The way the
disclosure is made depends on the position held.  The following public officials must use
the methods described below:

Legislative Assembly:
 Members must announce the nature of the conflict of interest in a manner pursuant
Public Official Guide  Page 21

Public Official Guide  Page 22
to the rules of the house in which they serve.  The Oregon Attorney General has
determined that only the Legislative Assembly  may investigate and sanction its
members for violations of conflict of interest disclosure rules in ORS 244.120(1)(a).
[49 Op. Atty. Gen. 167 (1999) issued on February 24, 1999]

Judges:
Judges must remove themselves from cases giving rise to the conflict of interest or
advise the parties of the nature of the conflict of interest. [ORS 244.120(1)(b)]

Public Employees:
Public officials in public bodies who ar e appointed, employed or volunteer must
provide a written notice to the person who appointed or employed them.  The notice
must describe the nature of the conflict of  interest with which they are met. [ORS
244.120(1)(c)]

Elected Officials or Appointed Members of Boards and Commissions:

 Except for members of the Legislative Asse mbly, these public officials must publicly
announce the nature of t he conflict of interest before participating in any official
action on the issue giving rise to the conflict of interest. [ORS 244.120(2)(a) and
ORS 244.120(2)(b)]

• Potential Conflict of Interest
:  Following the public announcement, the public official
may participate in official action on the issue that gave rise to the conflict of interest.

• Actual Conflict of Interest:  Following the public announcement, the public official
must refrain from further participation in official action on the issue that gave rise to
the conflict of interest. [ORS 244.120(2)(b)(A)]

If a public official is met with an actual conflict of interest and the public official’s vote is
necessary to meet the minimum number of vote s required for official action, the public
official may vote.  The pub lic official must make the required announcement and refrain
from any discussion, but may participate in the vote required for o fficial action by the
governing body. [ORS 244.120(2)(b)(B)]  These circumstances do not often occur.  This
provision does not apply in sit uations where there are insufficient votes because of a
member’s absence when the governing body is convened.  Rather, it applies in
circumstances when all members of the governing body are present
 and the number of
members who must refrain due to actual conflic ts of interest make it impossible for the
governing body to take official action.

The following circumstances may exempt a public official from the requirement to
make a public announcement or give a writte n notice describing the nature of a
conflict of interest:

• If the conflict of interest arises from a me mbership or interest held in a particular
business, industry, occupation or other class and that membership is a prerequisite

Public Official Guide  Page 23
for holding the public official position. [ORS 244.020(12)(a)]  For example, if a
member of a state board is required by law to be employed in a specific occupation,
such as an accountant or a doctor, then the official actions taken by the board
member that affect all accountants or doctors to the same degree would be exempt
from the conflict of interest disclosure requirements and participation restrictions.

• If the financial impact of the official action would impact the public official, relative or
business of the public official to t he same degree as other members of an
identifiable group or “class”.  The Commission has the authority to identify a group
or class and determine the minimum size of that “class.” [ORS 244.020(12)(b) and
ORS 244.290(3)(a)]  For exam ple, if a county commissioner votes to approve a
contract to improve or maintain a c ounty road that leads to the property the
commissioner owns, but the improvements would also benefit many other property
owners to the same degree, the commissioner would be exempt from the conflict of
interest disclosure requirements and parti cipation restrictions.  The number of
persons affected to the same degree as the public official will help to determine
whether this exception applies.

• If the conflict of interest arises from an unpaid position as officer or membership in a
nonprofit corporation that is tax-exempt under 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
[ORS 244.020(12)(c)]  For example, a city councilor is also an unpaid board member
or member at the local YMCA.  The decision, as a city councilor, to award a grant to
that YMCA would be exempt from the conflict of intere st disclosure requirements
and participation restrictions.

How is the public announcement of the nature of a conflict of interest recorded?

• The public body that is served by the public official will record the disclosure of the
nature of the conflict of in terest in the official records (minutes, audio/video
recording) of the public body. [ORS 244.130(1)]

Is a public official required to make an announcement of the nature of a conflict of
interest each time the issue giving rise to the conflict of interest is discussed or
acted upon?

• The announcement needs to be made on each o ccasion when the public official is
met with the conflict of interest.  Each time a public official is met with a conflict of
interest the nature must be disclosed.  For example, an elected member of the city
council would have to make the public announcement one time when met with the
conflict of interest, but only one time in each meeting of the city council.  If the
matter giving rise to the conflict of inte rest is raised at another meeting, the
disclosure must be made again at that meeting.  Another example would involve an
employee in a city planning department who would have to give a separate written
notice before each occasion they encounter a matter that gives rise to a conflict of
interest. [ORS 244.120(3)]

Public Official Guide  Page 24
If a public official failed to announce the nature of a conflict of interest and
participated in official action, is the official action voided?

• No.  Any official action that is taken may not be voided by any court solely by reason
of the failure of the public official to disclose an actual or potential conflict of interest
[ORS 244.130(2)].  However, the public offi cial faces the potential of personal
liability for the violation.

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 25
LEGAL EXPENSE TRUST FUND

If a public official is the respondent to a complaint, can the public official solicit
funds in order to pay for the cost of a legal defense?

The Oregon Government Ethics Commission can authorize a public official to establish a
trust fund to be used to defray expenses incurred for a legal defense in any civil, criminal or
other legal proceeding that relates to or arises from the course and scope of duties of the
person as a public official. [ORS 244.205]

The provisions regarding the establishment of this fund are detailed in ORS 244.205
through ORS 244.221.  If a public official is considering the need to establish a legal
expense trust fund, these prov isions should be reviewed.  The Commission staff is
available to provide guidance on the procedures.  The following are some of the significant
elements of a legal expense trust fund:

• A public official may only have one trust fund at any one time [ORS 244.205(4)].
• The application to establish the fund must be submitted to the Commission for
review and authorization.  ORS 244.209 details what information and documents
must accompany the application.
• The public official may act as the public official’s fund trustee [ORS 244.211(2)].
• Once authorized and established, any per son may contribute to the fund [ORS
244.213].
• Contributions from a principal ca mpaign committee are not allowed [ORS
244.213(3)].
• Funds must be maintained in a single exclusive account [ORS 244.215].
• Quarterly reports of contributions and ex penditures from the fund are required [ORS
244.217].
• The fund must be terminated within six mont hs after the legal proceeding for which
the fund was established has been concluded [ORS 244.219].
• When terminated, funds must be used to  pay legal expenses, returned to
contributors or donated to an organization exempt from taxation under section
501(c)(3) of the internal Revenue Code [ORS 244.221].

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 26
GIFTS

When Oregon Government Ethics la w uses the word “gift” it has the meaning in ORS
244.020(6)(a):

“‘Gift’ means something of economic value given to a public official, a candidate or a
relative or member of the household of the public official or candidate:

(A) Without valuable consideration of equivalent value, including the full or
partial forgiveness of indebtedness, which is not extended to “others” who are
not public officials or candidates or  the relatives or members of the
household of public officials or candidates on the same terms and conditions;
or

(B) For valuable consideration less than that required from “others” who are
not public officials or candidates.”

The Commission interprets “others” to indicate a significant portion of the general
public in Oregon who are not public officials or candidates.

In other words, a “gift” is something of economic value that is offered to,

• A public official or candidate or to relati ves or members of the household of a public
official or candidate,

• Without cost or at a discount or as forgiven debt and,

• The same offer is not made or available to the general public who are not public
officials or candidates.

[NOTE:  In the following discussion, references to candidates are omitted to simplify the
discussion.  In most of the discussion, if you are a candidate, r ead the references to
public official to mean “public official or candidate, if elected.”]

Oregon Government Ethics law establishes a framework of conditions for public officials to
apply when they, their relatives or members of their households are offered gifts.  If offered
a gift, the public official must analyze the offer and decide if “something of value” can be
accepted with or without restrictions.

There are restrictions on the value of gifts accepted by a public official, if the source of the
gift has a legislative or administrative interest in decisions or votes the public official makes
when acting in the capacity of a public official.

Legislative or administrative interest is defined in ORS 244.020(9) and is used, primarily,
when applying the law to gifts accepted by public officials.  Whether there is a legislative or
administrative interest is pivotal to any decision a public official makes on accepting gifts.  It

Public Official Guide  Page 27
will mean the difference between being allowed to accept gifts without limits, accepting gifts
with a limit of $50 on the aggregate value, or accepting gifts under specific conditions and
within specific parameters.  As will be apparent in the following discussion, the burden of
any decision on accepting a gift rests solely with the individual public official.

What does a public official need to know  about a “Legislative or Administrative
Interest”?

Beginning in 2010, the change to t he definition of what a legi slative or administrative
interest is represents one of the most si gnificant changes made in Oregon Government
Ethics law during the 2009 session of the Oregon Legislative Assembly.

The change is significant because knowing if t he source of a gift has a legislative or
administrative interest will help determine whether the gift offered can be accepted without
limits or with restrictions.  Before this change, a public official only had to know if a gift was
offered from a source with a legislative or administrative interest in official actions of the
public official’s governmental agency.  Now the focus is on the votes or decisions of each
individual public official.  The change places greater responsibility on the individual public
official to decide if a gift can be accepted without limits or with restrictions imposed by ORS
Chapter 244.  Not every public official makes decisions or casts votes, as those actions are
used in defining a legislative or administrativ e interest.  This means that when gifts are
offered to two or more public officials, in the same setting, one public official may be
allowed to accept the offer without limits and another public official may be able to accept
the offer, but it would be limit ed as to value or restricted by conditions that must be met
when accepting.

The definition of a legislative or administrative interest as set forth in ORS 244.020(9) as
follows:

“‘Legislative or administrative interest’ means an economic interest, distinct from that
of the general public, in:

(a) Any matter subject to the decision or vote of the public official acting in the public
official’s capacity as a public official; or

(b) Any matter that would be subject to the decision or vote of the candidate who, if
elected, would be acting in the capacity of a public official.”

In the context of gifts accepted by a public official, the public official must determine if the
source of the offered gift has a legislative or administrative interest in the decisions or votes
of the public official.  When analyzing a set of  circumstances and applying “legislative or
administrative interest”, there are several factors to consider:

Source
:  The Commission adopted a rule that identifies the source of a gift as the
person or entity that makes the ultimate and final payment of the gift’s expense.
OAR 199-005-0030 places two burdens on a public official who accepts gifts.  The

Public Official Guide  Page 28
public official must know the identity of the source and, if applicable, avoid
exceeding the limit on the aggregate value of gifts accepted from that source. [OAR
199-005-0030(2)]

Distinct from that of the general public:  With regard to gifts, this phrase refers to a
distinct economic interest held by the source of a gift.  That economic interest is in
the financial gain or loss that could result from any votes cast or decisions made by
a public official.  If the source of a gift would realize a financial gain or detriment
from a vote or decision of a public official, that source has an economic interest in
that public official.  That economic intere st is “distinct from that of the general
public”, if the potential financial gain or detriment is distinct from the financial impact
that would be realized by members of the general public from the votes or decisions
of that same public official.

There are decisions or votes that have an economic impact on single individuals or
individuals from specific businesses or groups that are distinct from the economic
impact on members of the general public. On the other hand, there are many votes
or decisions made by public officials that have the same general economic impact
on individuals, businesses, organizations and members of the general public.  Some
examples of decisions or votes that would have an economic impact on the general
public would be those that change water usage rates, fees for licenses or permits or
fines for parking violations.

To illustrate, private contractors have an economic interest in any public official who
has the authority to decide or vote to award them contracts.  The economic interest
of these contractors is distinct from the economic interest held by members of the
general public in those decisions or votes.

To further illustrate, real estate developers have an economic interest in any public
official who has the authority to decide or vote to approve their land use applications
or building permits.  The economic interest of these developers is distinct from the
economic interest held by members of the general public in those decisions or votes.

Vote:  This has the common meaning of to vote as an elected member of a
governing body of a public body or as  an appointed member of a committee,
commission or board appointed by a governing body, Oregon Legislative Assembly
or the Office of the Governor.

Decision:  The Commission adopted OAR 199-005-0003 and defines “decision” in
OAR 199-005-0003(2).  A public official make s a decision when the public official
exercises the authority given to the public official to commit the public body to a
particular course of action.  Making a recommendation or giving advice in an
advisory capacity does not constitute a decision.

The change to the definition of a legislative or administrative interest places the focus on

Public Official Guide  Page 29
the decision or vote of each individual public official.  That means that any decision to
accept or reject the offer of a gift must be made individually by each public official.  It also
means that there will be some public officials who may accept unlimited gifts from a source
and other public officials within the same public body that would have restrictions on gifts
from that same source.  This is because not all public officials in the same public body have
the same authority, responsibilities or duties.  Some may vote and make decisions, others
may do one but not the other and m any will not vote or make dec isions, as “decision” is
used in legislative or administrative interest.

There are public officials who, because they hold positions specified in ORS 244.050, must
file the Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest (SEI) form with the Commission on
April 15 of each year.  Some information list ed in that form is required when certain
financial interests, assets or liabilities, are related to a source with a legislative or
administrative interest in the votes or decisions  of the public official submitting the form.
Refer to the table of contents to find the discussion of the SEI form in this guide.

Any discussion of gifts must begin with the reminder that if the source of the offer of a gift to
a public official does not have a legislative or administrative interest in the decisions or
votes of the public official, the public official  can accept unlimited gifts from that source.
[ORS 244.040(2)(f)]

If the source of the offer of a gift to a public official has a legislative or administrative
interest in the decisions or votes of the public official, the public official can only accept gifts
from that source when the aggregate value of gifts from that source does not exceed $50 in
a calendar year. [ORS 244.025]

While gifts from a source with a legislative or administrative interest in the decisions or
votes of a public official have a $50 limit, there are some gifts that are excluded from the
definition of a “gift.”  If the offer of a gift is excluded from the definition of a “gift,” the offer
may be accepted by a public official.  The value of gifts that are allowed as exclusions does
not have to be included when calc ulating the aggregate value of gifts received from that
source in one calendar year. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)]

Sources who offer gifts or other financial benefits to public officials must also be aware of
the provisions in ORS Chapter 244.  While the specific gift of paid expenses may be
allowed by ORS 244.020(6)(b)(F), ORS 244.100(1) requires the source of this gift, if over
$50, to notify the public offici al in writing of the aggregate value of the paid expenses.
There is also a notice requirement in ORS 244.100(2) for the s ource of an honorarium
when the value exceeds $15.  Lobbyists, clients or employers of lobbyist and others who
provide gifts or financial benefits to public officials should also familiarize themselves with
the provisions in ORS 171.725 through ORS 171.992 and Divisions 5 and 10 of Chapter
199 in the Oregon Administrative Rules.  The Commission has published a “Guide to
Lobbying in Oregon” that provides a summary of these regulations and rules.

As previously mentioned, there are gifts that are allowed because they are excluded from
the definition of a “gift” when offered under specific conditions or when prerequisites are

Public Official Guide  Page 30
met.  Although some gifts are allowed, it should be remembered that a source may have a
notice requirement or there ma y be reporting requirements for the public official or the
source.  If you are a public official accepting gifts or a source offering gifts, it is important
you become familiar with the requirements that may apply to you.

ORS 244.020(6)(b) provides  a description of the GIFTS THAT ARE ALLOWED  as
exclusions to the definition of a “gift”:

[NOTE:  Not all of these exclusions apply to gifts offered to candidates.]

• Campaign contributions as defined in ORS 260.005. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(A)]

• Contributions to a legal expense tr ust fund established under ORS 244.209. [ORS
244.020(6)(b)(G)]

• Gifts from relatives or members of the household of public officials or candidates.
[ORS 244.020(6)(b)(B)]

• Anything of economic value received by a pub lic official or candidate, their relatives
or members of their household when; [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(O)]

The receiving is part of the usual and customary practice of the person’s
business, employment, or volunteer position with any legal non-profit or for-
profit entity. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(O)(i)]

The receiving bears no relationship to the person’s holding the official
position or public office. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(O)(ii)]

• Unsolicited gifts with a resale value of less than $25 and in the form of items similar
to a token, plaque, trophy and desk or wall mementos. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(C) and
see resale value discussed in OAR199-005-0010]

• Publications, subscriptions or other info rmational material related to the public
official’s duties. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(D)]

• Waivers or discounts for registration fees  or materials related to continuing
education or to satisfy a professional licens ing requirement for a public official or
candidate. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(J)]

• Entertainment for a public official or candidate and their relatives or members of
their households when the entertainment is incidental to the main purpose of the
event. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(M) and see OAR 199-005-0001(3) and OAR 199-005-
0025(1) for meaning of “incidental”]

• Entertainment for a public official, a relative of the public official or a member of the
public official’s household when the public official is acting in an official capacity and

Public Official Guide  Page 31
representing a governing agency for a ceremonial purpose. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(N)
and see “ceremonial” defined in OAR 199-005-0025(2)]

• Cost of admission or food and beverage consumed by the public official, a member
of the public official’s household or staff when they are accompanying the public
official, who is representing government, state, local or special district, at a
reception, meal or meeting held by an organization. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(E) and see
this exception discussed in OAR 199-005-0015]

• Food or beverage consumed by a public official or candidate at a reception where
the food and beverage is an in cidental part of the reception and there was no
admission charged. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(L) and OAR 199-005-0025(1) also see
OAR 199-005-0001(3) and (8)]

• When public officials travel together inside the state to an event bearing a
relationship to the office held and the public official appears in an official capacity, a
public official may accept the travel re lated expenses paid by the accompanying
public official. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(K)]

• Payment of reasonable expenses  if a public official is scheduled to speak, make a
presentation, participate on a panel or represent a government agency at a
convention, conference, fact-finding trip or other meeti ng.  The paid expenses for
this exception can only be accepted fr om another government agency, Native
American Tribe, an organization to which a public body pays membership dues or
not-for-profit organizations that are tax exempt under 501(c)(3). [ORS
244.020(6)(b)(F) and see definition of term s for this exception in OAR 199-005-
0020]

• Payment of reasonable food,  lodging or travel expenses for a public official, a
relative of the public official or a member  of the public official’s household or staff
may be accepted when the public official is representing the government agency or
special district at one of the following: [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(H) and see definition of
terms for this exception in OAR 199-005-0020]

o Officially sanctioned trade promot ion or fact-finding mission; [ ORS
244.020(6)(b)(H)(i)]

o Officially designated negotiation or economic development activity when
receipt has been approved in advance. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(H)(ii)]

[NOTE:  How and who may officially sanction and officially designate these events is
addressed in OAR 199-005-0020(2)(b).]

• Payment of reasonable expenses paid to a public school employee for
accompanying students on an educational trip. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(P)]

Public Official Guide  Page 32
• Food and beverage when acting in an official capacity in the following
circumstances: [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(I)]

o In association with a financial transaction or business agreement between a
government agency and another public body or a private entity, including
such actions as a review, approval or execution of documents or closing a
borrowing or investment transaction; [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(I)(i)]

o When the office of the Treasurer is  engaged in business related to proposed
investment or borrowing; [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(I)(ii)]

o When the office of the Treasurer is meeting with a governance, advisory or
policy making body of an entity in which the Treasurer’s office has invested
money. [ORS 244.020(6)(b)(I)(iii)]

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 33
GIFTS AS AN EXCEPTION TO THE USE OF OFFICE
PROHIBITION IN ORS 244.040

Since ORS 244.040 was amended in 2007, the acceptance of gifts that comply with ORS
244.020(6) and ORS 244.025 is excl uded from the prohibition on public officials’ use or
attempted use of an official position to gain financial benefits.  If a public official or relative
accepts a lawful gift, or a lawful financial benefit that qualifies as an exception to the
definition of a gift, ORS 244.040(1) does not prohibit the acceptance.

The discussion below is intended to assist public officials in understanding this distinction.
There are more focused discussions of gifts starting on page 26 and the use of position or
office starting on page 9.  It should be understood this section may paraphrase information
discussed more comprehensively in those areas of this guide.  Also, the application of the
gift provisions to candidates is not part of  this discussion because, unless the candidate
also qualifies as a public official on another basis, candidates are not public officials;
therefore, the use of an official position prohibited by ORS 244.040(1) would not apply to a
candidate who is not also a public official.

Oregon Government Ethics law does not prohibit public officials from accepting gifts [ORS
244.040(2)(e), (f) and (g)], but it does place on each individual public official the direct and
personal responsibility to understand there are circumstances when the aggregate value of
gifts may be restricted.  Public officials are also prohibited from using or attempting to use a
position held by the public official to obtain a prohibited financial benefit.  These provisions
of Oregon Government Ethics law often converge and require public officials to analyze and
determine whether the opportunity  to obtain financial benefits represents the use of an
official position prohibited by ORS 244.040(1) or a gift addressed with other provisions in
ORS Chapter 244 [ORS 244.020(6), ORS 244.025 or ORS 244.040(2)(e),(f) and (g)].

Is it a gift?

Public officials must understand the operative definition of a “gift” when deciding whether a
gift may be accepted by a public official or candidate.  The following is a paraphrase of the
definition taken from ORS 244.020(6)(a):

Gift: “Something of economic value” given to a public official, a relative of the
public official or a member of the public official’s household for which the recipient
either makes no payment or makes payment at a discounted price.  The opportunity
for the gift is one that is not available to members of the general public, who are
not public officials, under the same terms and conditions as those that apply to
the gift offered to the public official, the relative or a member of the household.

If something of economic value is received by a public official from the government
agency employer or the public body represented by the public official, that financial
benefit is not considered a gift, it is a financial benefit addressed by ORS 244.040 and it
is either allowed or prohibited.

Public Official Guide  Page 34
Sources of gifts are private individuals, businesses, organizations or government agencies,
but not the agency represented by or employing the public official.  Sources may also
be co-workers or representatives of the same public body who have purchased a gift with
their personal resources.

Gifts may be accepted by a public official, if  the source does not have a legislative or
administrative interest in the votes or decisions of the public official.  Specific gifts may be
accepted, if the conditions of the offer ex clude the gift from being defined as a gift [ORS
244.020(6)(b)(A) through (P)].  Gifts that ar e not excluded from th e definition may be
accepted from a source as long as the aggregate value of gifts from that source does not
exceed $50 in a calendar year.  For additional assistance, see the discussion beginning on
page 37 titled, “What if I am offered a gift?”

Is it a prohibited use of position?

Unlike gifts, which come from outside sour ces, ORS 244.040(1) focuses on the public
official’s own actions.  ORS 244.040(1) prohibits the use or attempted use of the position
held by the public official to obtain benefits which are only availabl e because of that
position.

The prohibited financial benefits might take several forms.  A public employee might have
access to job related resources, business opportunities, or information, and might want to
take financial advantage of this access.  The financial benefit might be the avoidance of a
personal expense, acquiring something of econom ic value, gaining extra income from
private employment, or creating a new employment opportunity.

Although this “use of position” applies to situations where something of value is obtained, or
there is an attempt to obtain something of value,  the Commission applies Oregon
Government Ethics law to “something of economic value” offered to a public official
that meets the definition of “gift,” it will be addressed as a gift in the analysis and
application of the law.  The following are some examples to illustrate the Commission’s
approach:

NOTE THAT IN THE FOLLOWING EXAMPLES, THE SOURCES OF THE
FINANCIAL BENEFITS HAVE A LEGISLATIVE OR ADMINISTRATIVE
INTEREST IN THE DECISIONS OR VOTES OF THE PUBLIC OFFICIALS.
That is important to remember because if there were no legislative or administrative interest
the public officials may be allowed to acc ept the offers without restrictions. [ORS
244.040(2)(f)]

• A salesperson from a software company o ffers to take the county’s information
technology manager out to lunch.  Because the manager has purchasing authority,
the salesperson has an administrative interest in the manager.  The meal would be a
gift and, if accepted, the value would be included in the aggregate value of gifts,
which cannot exceed $50 from a singl e source in one calendar year. [ORS
244.025(1)]  If the meal cost less than $50, the manager may accept it, but should

Public Official Guide  Page 35
keep a record of the gift and should be carefu l in future situations not to accept
additional gifts from this source if the value would exceed $50 total for the year.  Of
course, if the lunch costs more than $50, the manager may not accept it in any case.

• A city manager attends a work -related conference paid for by the city.  When the city
manager checks out of the hotel, she is offered a coupon for two nights of free
lodging at any hotel in the nationwide chain.  Because the city manager is in charge
of her own travel arrangements, the hotel has an administrative interest in her future
hotel-booking decisions.  If accepted and used for personal lodging, it would be a gift
and the value would be included in the aggr egate value of gifts, which cannot
exceed $50 from a single source in one calendar year. [ORS 244.025(1)]  Note that
if the city had adopted an official compensation package (as defined in OAR 199-
005-0035) that included a prov ision allowing the city manager to use “loyalty
program” benefits for personal use, the coupon could have been accepted.

• A county finance officer attends a work-rela ted conference paid for by the county.
When arriving at the conference the finance officer, as with others in attendance, is
offered a gift basket containing assorted goods from the organization hosting the
conference.  Because the organization sells  goods or services the finance officer
has the authority to purchase, the source of the gift has an administrative interest in
the finance officer.  Typically, such a gift basket would be a “gift” and, if accepted,
the value would be included in the aggregate value of gifts, which cannot exceed
$50 from a single source in one calendar year. [ORS 244.025(1)]  However, the law
does not prohibit accepting things that are made available to a significant portion of
the general public under the same terms and conditions.  If the conference was
open to members of the general public, and the attendees included a wide range of
public and private participants, the baskets would not be considered gifts.

• A state employee is sent by his agency to attend a two-day training conference.  A
salesperson is near the conference registration table and offers a collection of gifts
valued at over $100 to all registrants.  As in the last example, because the employee
has the authority to purchase goods or services sold by the salesperson, the source
of the gifts has an administrative interest in the state employee.  Let’s also assume
that the conference is only open to government employees.  Under these
circumstances the offered items would be gifts and any accepted could not exceed
the $50 limit on aggregate value from a single source in one calendar year. [ORS
244.025(1)]

• During the same conference,  the state employee is going out to dinner after the
conference adjourns for the day.  While passing through the hotel lobby, he stops to
speak with the salesperson who offered the gifts during the conference registration.
The salesperson asks to join the state employee for dinner and offers to pay for the
meal.  The value of the meal would be included with the value of any gifts accepted
earlier in the aggregate value of gifts, which cannot exceed $50 in one calendar
year. [ORS 244.025(1)]

Public Official Guide  Page 36
• A city mayor goes out to lunch in a loca l city restaurant.  During lunch a well known
developer approaches the mayor and offers to pay for the mayor’s meal.  The
developer has a legislative or administrative interest in decisions the mayor could
make on his construction projects.  The va lue of the meal, if  accepted, would be
included in the aggregate value of gifts from  a source, which cannot exceed $50
from a single source in one calendar year. [ORS 244.025(1)]

• A chief deputy who manages pr ocurement for a county sheriff’s office attends a
conference on newly developed equipment fo r law enforcement agencies.  Upon
arrival, the deputy purchases with personal  funds several “raffle tickets” each
representing a chance to win a shotgun from the manufacturer valued at $500.  The
opportunity to buy the tickets is only ava ilable to those attending the conference.
During the final session of the conference the “raffle” ticket drawing is held and the
chief deputy wins the shotgun.  As explained above, if the conference was only open
to public officials, or if few non-public employees were in attendance, the shotgun
would be a gift and, if accepted, the value would be included in the aggregate value
of gifts, which cannot exceed $50 from a single source in one calendar year. [ORS
244.025(1)]

When the Commission applies Oregon Government Ethics law to a financial benefit
obtained by a public official by using or attempting to use an opportunity that would
not otherwise be available but for the position or office held, ORS 244.040(1) will be
used in the analysis and application of the law.  The following are some examples to
illustrate the Commission’s approach:

• A city recorder has overseen the insta llation and implementation of a new software
program to manage the city’s financial records.  The distributor of this software has
a training event scheduled for employees who work for other cities’ governments.
The city recorder has been asked to participate as a trainer at the events and the
distributor has offered to provide co mpensation and pay any expenses for food,
lodging and travel.  If the city recorder accepted this offer, it could constitute the use
of the official position to gain a financ ial benefit because the opportunity for the
compensation and paid expenses would not be available but for holding the position
and performing the duties as the city recorder. [ORS 244.040(1)]

• A deputy fire chief, who is in charge of proc uring equipment for fire stations in the
district, locates a vendor that offers the make and model of an extension ladder to
replace obsolete ladders in the district’s st ations.  To increase the fire district’s
discount on each ladder, the deputy fire chief adds several extra ladders to the
order.  The deputy fire chief and two relatives take personal possession of the extra
ladders and pay the fire distri ct the amount the district paid for the ladders.  The
deputy fire chief would violate ORS 244.040(1) because the discounted price to the
deputy fire chief and the relatives represents the use of position to avoid a financial
detriment (discount) that is prohibited.

Public Official Guide  Page 37
• A city council has scheduled a public council m eeting in a room at a local restaurant.
 Before the scheduled meeting the councilors  plan to use city funds to purchase
dinner for councilors, the councilor’s spouses and members of the city’s staff
attending the scheduled meeti ng.  The councilors, who are accompanied by a
spouse, would violate ORS 244.040(1) because the cost of the meal for the spouse
would represent the use of position to avoid a financial detriment that is prohibited.

The responsibility for judgments and decisions made in order to comply with the various
provisions in Oregon Government  Ethics law rests with the individual public official who
faces the circumstances that require a judgment or decision.  That is true of questions
regarding gifts, use of an official position, announcing the nature of conflicts of interest and
the many situations addressed in ORS Chapter 244.

What if I am offered a gift?

First, insure you know the identity of the source of the gift.  Remember, the source of a gift
is the person or entity that made the ultimate payment for the gift’s expense [See page 27].

Second, determine if the source of the gift has an economic interest in decisions or votes
you make in your official capacity as a public o fficial.  If that economic interest is distinct
from the interest held by members of the general public it is a legislative or administrative
interest [See page 27].

• If the source does not have a legislative or  administrative interest, gifts from that
source are not prohibited or limited as to value or quantity.

• If the source has a legislative or admin istrative interest, you must answer the
following questions:

1. Is the gift offered under the conditions that would allow you to accept the gift
because it is excluded from what is defined as a “gift”?  These exclusions are
found in ORS 244.020(6)(b) and described on pages 30 - 32 of this guide.

2. What is the value of t he gift?  Remember, you can accept gifts [not excluded
from the definition of “gift”.] from a single source when the aggregate value of
gifts from that source does not exceed $50 in a calendar year. [ORS
244.025]

*****

ANNUAL VERIFIED STATEMENT OF ECONOMIC INTEREST

There are approximately 5,500 Oregon public officials who must file an Annual Verified
Statement of Economic Interest (SEI)  form with the Oregon Government Ethics
Commission by April 15 of each calendar year.

The public officials who are required to file reports are specified in ORS 244.050 .
Please refer to that section of the law to see if  your specific position requires you to file
these forms.  In general, public officials who hold the following positions are required to file:

• State public officials who hold elected or appointed executive, legislative or judicial
positions.  This includes those who hav e been appointed to positions on certain
boards or commissions.

• In counties, elected officials, such as commissioners, assessors, surveyors,
treasurers and sheriffs must file, as do planning commission members and the
county’s principal administrator.

• In cities, all elected officials, the city  manager or principal administrator, municipal
judges and planning commission members must file.

• Administrative and financial officers in sc hool districts, education service districts
and community college districts must file.

• Some members of the board of directors for certain special districts must file.

• Candidates for some elected public offices are also required to file.

The Commission staff has identified the positions held by public officials who must file the
SEI form and has them listed by jurisdiction.  Each jurisdiction [city, county, executive
department, board or commission, etc.] has a person who acts as the Commission’s point
of contact for that jurisdiction [OAR 199-020-0005(1)].

The contact person for each jurisdiction has an important role in the annual filing of the
SEI forms.  It is through the contact person that the Commission obtains the current name
and address of each public official who is required to file.  When there is a change, through
resignation, appointment or election, in who holds a position, the contact person notifies the
Commission.  If there is a change in the filer’s mailing address, it is the contact person who
notifies the Commission.

As with other provisions in Oregon Government  Ethics law, it is each public official’s
personal responsibility to ensure they comply with the requirement to complete and submit
the SEI form by April 15.  Those public officials who must file a SEI form are well served if
the contact person ensures that the Commission has the correct name and address of the
public official.
Public Official Guide  Page 38

Public Official Guide  Page 39
Beginning in January of each year the Commission prepares a list by jurisdiction of each
public official required to file the SEI form.  A list for each jurisdiction is sent to the contact
person.  The contact person is required to review the list for accuracy.  After entering the
necessary changes, the contact person must retu rn the list that has been reviewed and
corrected to the Commission by February 15. [OAR 199-020-0005(2)]

The contact person from each jurisdiction should ensure that each filer has been advised of
the reporting requirements.  Each filer should also receive information as to the procedures
the jurisdiction follows to assist the filer in meeting the SEI filing requirement.

Based on the information provided by each of the jurisdictions’ contacts, the Commission
sends an annual SEI form directly to each individual public official required to file the form.

Again, the requirement to file the SEI is the personal responsibility of each public official.
Each public official should comply and file timely, as the civil penalties for late filing are $10
for each of the first 14 days after the filing deadline and $50 for each day thereafter until the
aggregate penalty reaches the maximum of $5,000. [ORS 244.350(4)(c)]

SEI Form

When the forms are distributed in March of each year, the instructions and definitions are
also included to assist the filer in completing the forms.  The information needed to
complete the form pertains to the previous calendar year.

NOTE:  Only public officials who hold a position that is required to file, and who holds the
position on April 15 of the year the SEI is due, must complete the form.

The following is a brief description of the information requested in the SEI form:

• Name and address of each business in which a position as officer or director was held
by the filer or member of the household. [ORS 244.060(1)]

• Name and address of each business through which the filer or  member of the
household did business. [ORS 244.060(2)]

• Name and address and brief description of t he sources of income for the filer and
members of the household that represent 10 percent or more of the annual household
income. [ORS 244.060(3)]

• Ownership interests held by the filer or members of the household  in real property,
except for the principal residence, loca ted within the geographic boundaries of the
governmental agency in which the filer holds the position or seeks to hold. [ORS
244.060(4)(a) and (b)

• Honoraria or other items allowed by ORS 244.042 that exceed $15 in value given to the
filer or members of the filer’s household.  Include a description of the honoraria or item

Public Official Guide  Page 40
and the date and time of the event  when the item was received [ORS 244.060(7)].
Remember that honorarium cannot exceed $50. [ORS 244.042(3)(a)]

• Name of each lobbyist associated with any business the filer or  a member of the
household is associated, unless the association is through stock held in publicly traded
corporations. [ORS 244.090]

• If the public official received over $50 from an entity to participate in a convention, fact-
finding mission, trip, or other meeting as  allowed by ORS 244.020(6)(b)(F), list the
name and address of the entity that paid the expenses.  Include the event date,
aggregate expenses paid, purpose for participation a copy of the notice of aggregate
value paid. [ORS 244.060(5) and ORS 244.100(1)] [Not required for candidates]

• If the public official received over $50 from an entity to participate in a trade promotion,
fact-finding mission, negotiations or economic  development activities as allowed by
ORS 244.020(6)(b)(H), list the name and address of the person that paid the expenses.
 Include the event date, aggregate ex penses paid and nature of the event. [ORS
244.060(6)] [Not required for candidates]

The following is required if the information requested relates to an individual or business
that has been or could reasonably be expected to do business with the filer’s governmental
agency or has a legislative or administrative interest in the filer’s governmental agency:

• Name, address and description of each source of  income (taxable or not) that exceeds
$1,000 for the filer or a member of the filer’s household. [ORS 244.060(8)]

• Name of each person the filer or member of the filer’s household has owed $1,000 or
more.  Include the date of the loan and the inte rest rate.  Debts on retail contracts or
with regulated financial institutions are excluded. [ORS 244.070(1)]

• Business name, address and nature of beneficia l interest over $1,000, or investment
held by the filer or a member of the househol d in stocks or securities over $1,000.
Exemptions include mutual funds, blind trusts, deposits in financial institutions, credit
union shares and the cash value of life insurance policies. [ORS 244.070(2)]

• Name of each person from w hom the filer received a fee of over $1,000 for services,
unless disclosure is prohibited by a professional code of ethics. [ORS 244.070(3)]

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 41
OREGON GOVERNMENT ETHICS COMMISSION

The Governor appoints all seven member s of the Commission and each appointee is
confirmed by the Senate.  The commissioners are recommended as follows [ORS
244.250]:

1 Recommended by the Senate Democratic leadership
1 Recommended by the Senate Republican leadership
1 Recommended by the House Democratic leadership
1 Recommended by the House Republican leadership
3 Recommended by the Governor

No more than four commissioners with the same political party affiliation may be appointed
to the Commission to serve at the same time.  The commissioners are limited to one four
year term, but if an appoint ee fills an unfinished term they  can be reappointed to a
subsequent four year term.

The Commission members select a chairpers on and vice chairperson annually.  The
Commission is administered by an executive director, who is selected by the Commission.
Legal counsel is provided by the Oregon Department of Justice.

The Commission staff provides administration, training, guidance, issues written opinions,
and conducts investigations when complaints are filed with the Commission.

Training:

The Commission has designated training as one of its highest priorities.  It has two staff
positions to provide training to public officials and lobbyists on the laws and regulations
under its jurisdiction.  Traini ng is provided through presentations at training events,
iLearnOregon, informational links on the website, topical handouts and guidance offered
when inquiries are received.

Advice:

All members of the Commission staff are cross-trained in the laws and regulations under
the Commission’s jurisdictions.  Questions regarding the Commission’s laws, regulations
and procedures are a welcome da ily occurrence.  Timely and accurate answers are a
primary objective of the staff.  Guidance and information is provided either informally or in
written formal opinions.  The following are available:

• Telephone inquiries are answered during the call or as soon as possible.

• E-mail inquiries are answered with return e-mail or telephone call as soon as
possible.

• Letter inquiries are answered by letter as soon as possible.

Public Official Guide  Page 42
• Written opinions on specific circumstances can also be requested.

Requests for written opinions must describe the specific facts and circumstances that
provide the basis for questions about how the Oregon Government Ethics law may apply.
The facts and circumstances may define a proposed transaction and may be hypothetical
or actual.  If the circumstances indicate that a violation may have occurred, the staff cannot
provide an opinion because to do so could compromise the Commission’s objectivity if a
complaint were to be filed.  The written opinions will be in one of the following formats, as
requested:

Staff Advice

ORS 244.284 provides for informal staff advice,  which may be offered in several forms,
such as in person, by telephone, e-mail or le tter.  In a letter of advice, the proposed,
hypothetical or actual facts are restated as presented in the request and the relevant laws
or regulations are applied.  The answer will conclude whether a particular action by a public
official comports with the law.

If the Commission determines that a respondent violated provisions of law within its
jurisdictions and the respondent received staff advice offered under the authority of ORS
244.284, in sanctioning the viol ation, the Commission may consider whether the public
official committed the violation when relying on the staff advice [ORS 244.284(2)].

For staff advice to be a factor in the sanction phase, it is important to understand that the
circumstances the respondent described in  the request must have been an accurate
description of what occurred when the respondent committed the violation.  The actions of
the respondent must have been those recommended or described in the staff advice.  The
Commission is not prevented from  finding a violation in these circumstances, but the
sanction imposed could be affected.

Staff Advisory Opinion

ORS 244.282 authorizes the execut ive director to issue a st aff advisory opinion upon
receipt of a written request.  The opinion is i ssued in a letter that restates the proposed,
hypothetical or actual facts presented in t he written request and identifies the relevant
statutes.  The letter will discuss how the law applies to the questions asked or raised by the
fact circumstances presented in the request. The Commission must respond to any request
for a staff advisory opinion within 30 days, unl ess the executive director extends the
deadline by an additional 30 days.

If the Commission determines that a respondent violated provisions of law within its
jurisdictions and the respondent received a st aff advisory opinion under the authority of
ORS 244.282, in sanctioning the violation, the Commission may consider whether the
public official committed the violation when relying on the staff advisory opinion [ORS
244.282(3)].

Public Official Guide  Page 43

For the staff advisory opinion to be a factor in the sanction phase, it is important to
understand that the circumstances the res pondent described in the request must have
been an accurate description of what occurred when the respondent committed the
violation.  The actions of the respondent must have been those recommended or described
in the staff advisory opinion.  The Commission is not prevented from finding a violation in
these circumstances, but whether the sanction is imposed or its severity could be affected.

Commission Advisory Opinion

ORS 244.280 authorizes the Commission to prepare and adopt by vote a Commission
Advisory Opinion.  This formal written opinion also restates the proposed, hypothetical or
actual facts presented in a written request for a formal opinion by the Commission.  The
opinion will identify the relevant statutes and discuss how the law applies to the questions
asked or raised by the fact circumstances provided in the request.  These formal advisory
opinions are reviewed by legal counsel  before the Commission adopts them.  The
Commission must respond to any request for a Commission Advisory Opinion within 60
days, unless the Commission extends t he deadline by an additional 60 days [ORS
244.280(1) and (2)].

The Commission may not impose a penalty on a person for any good faith action taken by
the person while relying on a Commission Advisory Opinion, unless it is determined that the
person who requested the opinion omitted or misstated material facts in the opinion request
[ORS 244.280(3)].

For the Commission Advisory Opinion to be a factor in preventing the imposition of a
penalty, it is important to understand that the circumstances described in the request must
have been an accurate description of what occurred when the respondent committed the
violation.  The actions of the respondent must have been those recommended or described
in the Commission Advisory Opinion.  The Commission is not prevented from finding a
violation in these circumstances, but could be prevented from imposing a sanction.

If a person requests, receives or relies on any of the advice or opinions authorized
by ORS 244.280 through ORS 244.284, does that person have what is referred to as
“safe harbor” protection from becoming a respondent to a complaint filed with or
initiated by the Commission?

There is no “safe harbor,” if the term is understood to mean that any person who relies on
any advice or opinions offered by the Commissi on or the staff is pr otected from being a
respondent to a complaint, from being found in violation of laws within the jurisdiction of the
Commission, or from receiving a penalty for a violation.

There is, however, specific and conditional protection for any person who has requested
and relied upon advice or an opinion from the Commission or its staff.  The conditions and
protection is as follows:

Public Official Guide  Page 44
• The fact circumstances described in the request must not misrepresent, misstate or
omit material facts.

• Reliance on the advice or opinion means t hat the action or transactions of the
person were those described or suggested in the advice or opinion.

• The protection applies only during the penalty phase, after the Commission has
determined that a violation has occurred.  If there was reliance on staff advice or a
Staff Advisory Opinion, the Commission may consider the reliance during the
penalty phase.  If reliance was on a Commission Advisory Opinion, the Commission
may not impose a penalty.

Any person who has not requested advice or an opinion must be cautious when trying to
apply advice or opinions offered to others.  The advice and opinions given are based on
and tailored to the specific fact circumstances presented in a request.  Fact circumstances
vary from one situation to another and they vary  from one public official to another.  If a
person reviews an opinion or advice issued to another for circumstances the person
believes similar to those now met and relies on that advice, the person must ensure the
similarity is sufficient for the application of law to be the same.

It is important to remember that the provisions of law apply to the individual actions of the
person or public official.  There are events or occasions when more than one public official
may be present and participating in their official capacities.  Depending on the
circumstances and conditions for an event or transaction, the law may have a different
application for one public official than for other public officials.

Compliance:

The Commission has a program manager who oversees the management and
administration of the various reports that  are filed with the Co mmission.  There are
approximately 2,000 lobbyists and employers of lobbyists who file quarterly lobbying activity
expense reports.  Each of the nearly 1,000 lobby ists must file or renew their lobbying
registrations every two years.  There are approximately 5,500 public officials who must file
the Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest form each April 15.

Complaint Review Procedures:

Investigations are initiated through a complaint procedure [ORS 244.260].   Any person
may file a signed, written complaint alleging that there may have been a violation of Oregon
Government Ethics law, Lobbying Regulation or the executive session provisions of Oregon
Public Meetings law.  The complaint must state the person’s reason for believing that a
violation may have occurred and must include any evidence that supports that belief. The
executive director reviews the complaint and if additional information is needed, the
complainant is asked to provide that information.

If there is reason to believe that there has been a violation of laws within the jurisdiction of

Public Official Guide  Page 45
the Commission, an investigation will be initiat ed.  The Commission may also initiate an
investigation on its own complaint by motion and vote.  Before approving such a motion, the
public official against whom the action may be taken is notified and given an opportunity to
appear before the Commission at the meeting when the matter is discussed or acted upon.

When a complaint is accepted, the public official against whom the allegations are made is
referred to as the respondent.  The respondent is notified of the complaint and provided
with the information received in the complaint and the identity of the complainant.  Whether
based on a complaint or a motion by the Commission, the initial stage of the Commission
procedure is called the Prelimi nary Review Phase.  The time allowed for this phase is
limited to 135 days and the Commission must act on the complaint within that period.

If there is a pending criminal matter related to  the same circumstances or actions to be
addressed in the Preliminary Review, the time period is suspended until the criminal matter
is concluded.

There may be a variety of reasons for a res pondent to ask for additional time before the
Commission determines whether there is cause to investigate the issues raised in the
complaint.  With the consent of the Commission, a respondent may request a waiver of the
135 day time limit.  If a complaint is made against a candidate within 61 days of an election,
the candidate may request a delay.

During the Preliminary Review Phase, t he Commissioners and staff can make no public
comment on the matter other than acknowledge receipt of the complaint.  It is maintained
as a confidential matter until the Commission ends the Preliminary Review Phase.  Under
most circumstances, the Co mmission will end the Preliminary Review Phase by either
dismissing the complaint or finding cause to conduct an investigation.  The Commission
meets in executive session to conduct deliberations and vote on the finding of cause or to
dismiss.  After the close of the Preliminary Re view Phase, the case file is open to public
inspection.

If the complaint is dismissed, the matte r is concluded and both the respondent and
complainant are notified.  If cause is found to investigate, then an Investigatory Phase
begins.  The investigatory phase is limited to 180 days.

During each phase, information and documents are solicited from the complainant,
respondent, and other witnesses and sources that are identified.  Before the end of the 180
day investigatory period, the Commission will consider the result s of the investigation.
Normally, the Commission will either dismiss the complaint or make a preliminary finding
that a violation of Oregon Government Ethics law was committed by the respondent.  The
preliminary finding of a violation is based on what the Commission considers to be a
preponderance or sufficient evidence to support such a finding.

If a preliminary finding of violation is made, the respondent will be offered the opportunity to
request a contested case hearing.  At any time, the respondent is also encouraged to

Public Official Guide  Page 46
negotiate a settlement with the executive director, who represents the Commission in such
negotiations.  Most cases before the Co mmission are resolved through a negotiated
settlement, with the terms of the agreement described in a Stipulated Final Order.

The Commission has a variety of sanctions available after making a finding that a violation
occurred.  Sanctions range from letters of reprimand to civil penalties and forfeitures.  The
maximum civil penalty that can be imposed for each violation is $5,000, except for
violations of the executiv e session provisions in ORS 192.660 where the maximum is
$1,000.  Any financial gain that  a respondent realized from a violation is subject to a
forfeiture of twice the gain.  Any monetary sanctions imposed and paid are deposited into
the State of Oregon General Fund.

*****

Public Official Guide  Page 47

INDEX

 A
Actual conflict of interest ........................................... 6, 7, 10, 14, 16, 21, 22, 23, 24, 37
Administrative interest.................................................. 26, 27, 28,  29, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40
Advisory Opinion, Commission ..............................................................................43, 44
Advisory Opinion, Staff..................................................................................... 42, 43, 44
Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest (SEI)........... 3, 8, 12, 29, 38, 39, 40, 44
Assistant Attorney General...........................................................................................18
Awards for professional achievement.....................................................................12, 13

 B

Beverage................................................................................................................31 , 32
Boards, members of..................................................... 5, 6, 8, 17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 28, 38
Business................3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28, 30, 31, 32, 34, 39, 40
Business agreement.....................................................................................................32
Business, associated................................................ 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 16, 21, 22, 23, 39, 40

 C

Candidates ..................................................................... 7, 26, 27, 30, 31, 33, 38, 40, 45
Campaign contributions............................................................................................2, 30
Ceremonial.............................................................................................................30, 31
Certificate .....................................................................................................................30
Civil penalty.................................................................................................................. 46
Class exception......................................................................................................22, 23
Client of lobbyists ...............................................................................................1, 29, 44
Commemorative token .................................................................................................30
Commission Advisory Opinion ............................................................................... 43, 44
Commissions, members of........................................................... 5, 6, 17, 19, 22, 28, 38
Compensation package...................................................................... 6, 7, 10, 11, 16, 35
Complaint process........................................................ 11, 13, 25, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46
Confidential information.................................................................... 9, 16, 17, 18, 19, 45
Conflict of interest .................................................. 3, 6, 7, 10, 14, 16, 21, 22, 23, 24, 37
Conflict of interest, exceptions ...............................................................................22, 23
Contact person.......................................................................................................38, 39
Contested case hearing ...............................................................................................45
Continuing education....................................................................................................30

 D
Decision ................................................................... 3, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 34, 35, 36, 37
Department of Consumer and Business Services..................................................17, 18
Department of State Police ....................................................................................19, 20
Deputy Attorney General..............................................................................................18
Division of Finance and Corporate Securities ..............................................................18

Public Official Guide  Page 48
 E
Economic development ..........................................................................................31, 40
Economic interest............................... 3, 8, 12, 26, 27, 28, 29, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 44
Education, continuing...................................................................................................30
Educational trip ............................................................................................................31
Employment, subsequent............................................................... 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 34
Employment, of a relative................................................................. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15
Employers of lobbyists .......................................................................................1,  29, 44
Entertainment...........................................................................................................1, 30
Entertainment, ceremonial purposes......................................................................30, 31
Entertainment, incidental..............................................................................................30
Exceptions, conflict of interest................................................................................22, 23
Executive session..................................................................................... 1, 2, 44, 45, 46

 F
Fact-finding mission ...............................................................................................31 , 40
Fee, appearance for.......................................................................................................9
Financial detriment, personal ........................... 6, 7, 9, 11, 16, 17, 21, 22, 23, 28, 36, 37
Financial gain, use of office...................... 1, 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 16, 28, 33, 34, 36, 37, 46
Financial transaction ....................................................................................................32
Food and beverage ................................................................................................31, 32
Food, beverage and admission ....................................................................................31
Food, lodging and travel...........................................................................................1, 31
Forfeiture..................................................................................................................... .46

 G

Gift.................................................. 3, 6, 7, 12, 13, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37
Gifts allowed as exclusions ................................................ 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37

 H

Honoraria or honorarium ............................................................................ 12, 29, 39, 40

 I

Incidental................................................................................................................30, 3 1
Insurance Division........................................................................................................18
Investigative Phase .................................................................................... 41, 43, 44, 45

 J

Judges....................................................................................................................22, 3 8
Jurisdiction ............................................................................. 1, 2, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44

 L

Legal Expense Trust Fund ............................................................................... 13, 25, 30
Legislative or administrative interest ............................ 26, 27, 28, 29, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40
Legislative Assembly...................................................................... 15, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28
Letter of advice........................................................................................... 41, 42, 43, 44

Public Official Guide  Page 49
Letter of reprimand.......................................................................................................46
Lobbyist................................................................................ 1, 18, 19, 20, 29, 40, 41, 44
Lodging ....................................................................................................................1, 3 1

 M
Member of household..................................... 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 26, 30, 31, 33, 39, 40
Members of boards or commissions ............................ 5, 6, 8, 17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 28, 38
Mementos, unsolicited desk and wall...........................................................................30

 N

Native American tribal gaming ...............................................................................19, 20
Native American Tribe...................................................................................... 19, 20, 31
Negotiation ................................................................................................. 18, 31, 40, 46
Nepotism ................................................................................................................14, 15

 O

Official capacity ........................................................................ 15, 16, 19, 30, 31, 32, 37
Official duties................................................................................ 6, 9, 11, 15, 25, 29, 30
Officially designated .....................................................................................................31
Officially sanctioned .....................................................................................................31
Oregon Liquor Control Commission .............................................................................18
Oregon State Lottery........................................................................................ 18, 19, 20

 P

Plaque......................................................................................................................... .30
Plaque, unsolicited ....................................................................................................... 30
Potential conflict of interest ............................................................ 16, 21, 22, 23, 24, 37
Preliminary Review Phase ...........................................................................................45
Private employment............................................ 7, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 30, 34
Professional achievement, awards for....................................................................12, 13
Public official .......................................................... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13
Public Utility Commission .............................................................................................18
Publications..............................................................................................................1,  30

 R

Reception .....................................................................................................................3 1
Reimbursement of expenses............................................................................ 10, 11, 12
Relative .................................. 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 26, 30, 31, 33, 36
Representative ............................................................................................. 9, 18, 20, 34
Representing government agency................................................................................31
Reprimand, letter of......................................................................................................46

 S

Safe Harbor............................................................................................................43, 44
SEI, Annual Verified Statement of Economic Interest ............ 3, 8, 12, 29, 38, 39, 40, 44
Senator........................................................................................................................ .20

Public Official Guide  Page 50
Source, single .......................................................... 1, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 34, 35, 36, 37
Speak.......................................................................................................................... .31
Staff advice ............................................................................................................42, 44
Staff Advisory Opinion...................................................................................... 42, 43, 44
State Police, Department of ................................................................................... 19, 20
Stipulated Final Order ..................................................................................................46
Subscriptions................................................................................................................30
Subsequent employment................................................................ 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 34

 T
Tokens, unsolicited.......................................................................................................30
Trade promotion.....................................................................................................31, 40
Training ....................................................................................................................3, 41
Travel expenses, paid ............................................................................................11, 31
Treasurer, State .....................................................................................................18, 32
Treasurer, Chief Deputy...............................................................................................18
Trophy, unsolicited ....................................................................................................... 30

U
Use of office or position............................................ 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37

V
Volunteers ................................................................................ 5, 6, 9, 10, 15, 16, 22, 30
Vote............................................................ 16, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 34, 37, 43, 45