YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 1 of 9

YAMHILL COUNTY CODE

CHAPTER 3: REVENUE, FINANCE, AND PURCHASING

Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Title
I. POLICY, PURPOSE, AND TITLE
3.15.01.01 Policy
3.15.01.02 Purpose
3.15.01.03 Title
II. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS
3.15.02.01 Rules of Construction
3.15.02.02 Definitions
III. IMPOSITION OF SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
3.15.03.01 Development Subject to Charges
 3.15.03.02 Rates of Char ges; Offset
 3.15.03.03 Payment of Charges
 3.15.03.04 Exemptions
 3.15.03.05 Credits
 3.15.03.06 Appeals and Review Hearings
 3.15.03.07 Review
IV. RECEIPT AND EXPENDITURE OF SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
3.15.04.01 Trust Account
3.15.04.02 Use of System Development Charges
3.15.04.03 Prohibited Uses of System Development Charges
3.15.04.04 Authorized Capital Improvements
3.15.04.05 Investment of Trust Account Revenues
3.15.04.06 Refunds of System Development Charges
3.15.04.07 Annual Accounting Report
3.15.04.08 Challenge of Expenditures
V. SEVERABILITY
 3.15.05.01 Severability

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

EXHIBIT A: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charges Methodology Report

EXHIBIT B: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Plan (1994-1997)
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 2 of 9

SECTION 1 - POLICY, PURPOSE, AND TITLE
3.15.01.01 Policy.
a) The Board recognizes that ORS 223.297 to 223.314 authorizes local governments to impose system
development charges on new development for the purpose of providing a source of funding for certain capital
facilities, including parks and recreation facilities, which will serve needs created by such development.
b) The Board further recognizes that if system development charges are not imposed on future development, a
burden will be placed on current residents of the County who will be faced with the choice of either paying
increased taxes and/ or other fees in order to provide the additional parks and recreation facilities required to
serve future development, or  experiencing reduced levels of service at such facilities as a result of
overcrowding.
c) Pursuant to the provisions of ORS 223.297 to 223.314, the Board finds it necessary to impose system
development charges on new development for the purpose of providing a source of funding for parks and
recreation capital facilities to serve new development.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.01.02 Purpose. ORS 223.304 requires that system development charges must be established by ordinance
or resolution. The ordinance or resolution must set forth a methodology that considers the cost of projected capital
improvements needed to increase the capacity of facil ities to meet the needs of future development and it must
provide for a credit against the system development charge for the construction of a “ qualified public
improvement”. This ordinance is enacted to comply with these requirements and to:
a) Identify exemptions from the system development charge,
b) Provide for appeals and review hearings,
c) Provide for a periodic review of the system development charge methodology and rates,
d) Establish a trust account,
e) Outline authorized and prohibited uses of system development charge revenues,
f) Provide for an annual accounting report, and
g) Establish a procedure for challenging expenditures of system development charge revenues.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.01.03 Title. This ordinance may be cited as the “Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development
Charge Ordinance”.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

SECTION 2 - RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS
3.15.02.01 Rules of Construction. For the purposes of administration and enforcement of this ordinance, unless
otherwise stated in this ordinance, the following rules of construction shall apply:
a) In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text of this ordinance and any caption,
illustration, summary table, or illustrative table, the text shall control.
b) The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary: the word “may” is permissive.
c) Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in the singular shall include the plural
and the plural the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary; and use of the masculine gender
shall include the feminine gender.
d) The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for”, “designed for”, “maintained for”, or “occupied for”.
e) Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions,
provisions, or events connected by the conjunction “ and”, “or” or “either ... or ”, the conjunction shall be
interpreted as follows:
i) “And” indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions or events shall apply.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 3 of 9
ii) “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, or provisions or events may apply singly or in
any combination.
iii) “Either ... or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly
but not in combination.
f) The word “includes” shall not limit a term to the specific example, but is intended to extend its meaning to all
other instances or circumstances of like kind or character.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.02.02 Definitions. As used in this ordinance, the terms defined in this section shall have  the defined
meanings unless the context requires otherwise. The following definitions apply:
a) “Applicant” shall mean the owner or other person who applies for a building permit or development permit
within Yamhill County.
b) “Building” shall mean any structure, either temporary or permanent, built for the support, shelter or enclosure
of persons, chattels or property of any kind. This term shall include tents, trailers, mobile homes or any
vehicles serving in any way the function of a building. This term shall not include temporary construction
sheds or trailers erected to assist in construction and maintained during the term of a building permit.
c) “Building Permit” shall mean an official document or certificate authorizing the construction or siting of any
building. For purposes of this Ordinance, the term “ Building Permit” shall also include any construction,
installation or placement permit which may be required f or those structures or buildings, such as a mobile
home, that serve as dwelling units but do not require a building permit in order to be occupied.
d) “Capital Improvements” shall mean public facilities or assets used for parks and recreation purposes.
e) “Citizen or Other Interested Person” shall mean any person who is a legal resident of the Yamhill County
as evidenced by registration as a voter in the County, or by other proof of residency; or a person who owns,
occupies, or otherwise has an interest in real p roperty which is located within the County or is otherwise
subject to the imposition of system development charges, as outlined in Section 3 of this ordinance.
f) “County” shall mean Yamhill County, Oregon.
g) “Credit” shall mean the amount of money by which the parks and recreation system development charge for
a specific development may be reduced because of construction of eligible capital facilities as outlined in this
ordinance.
h) “Development” shall mean a building or other land construction, or making a change in the use of a structure
or land, in a manner which increases the usage of any capital improvements or which will contribute to the
need for additional or enlarged capital improvements.
i) “Dwelling Unit ” shall mean a building or a portion of a building designed for residential occupancy,
consisting of one or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living quarters for one family only.
j) “Encumbered” shall mean monies committed by c ontract or purchase order in a manner that obligates the
County to expend the encumbered amount upon delivery of goods, the rendering of services, or the
conveyance of real property provided by a vendor, supplier, contractor or Owner.
k) “Improvement Fee” shall mean a fee for costs associated with capital improvements to be constructed after
the effective date of this ordinance. Notwithstanding anything in this ordinance to the contrary, it is an incurred
charge or cost based upon the use of or the availabilit y for use of the systems and capital improvements
required to provide services and facilities necessary to meet the routine obligations of the use and ownership
of property, and to provide for the public health and safety upon development.
l) “Owner” shall mean the person holding legal title to the real property upon which development is to occur.
m) “Person” shall mean an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated association, or any other
similar entity.
n) “Qualified Public Improvement” shall mean a capital improvement that is:
i) Required as a condition of development approval;
ii) Identified in the capital improvement plan adopted pursuant to Section 3.15.04.04; and
1. Not located on or contiguous to property that is the subject of development approval, or
2. Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is the  subject of development
approval and required to be built larger or with greater capacity than is necessary for the
particular development project to which the improvement fee is related.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 4 of 9
o) “System Development Charge” shall mean an improvement fee assessed or collected at the time of increased
usage of a capital improvement or issuance of a development permit or building permit. System development
charges are separate from and in addition to any applicable tax, assessment, fee in lieu of assessment, or other
fee or charge provided by law or imposed as a condition of  development. In this ordinance, “SDC” refers to
the system development charge.
p) “Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Methodology Report” shall mean
the report adopted pursuant to Section 3.15.03.02, as amended and  supplemented pursuant to Section
3.15.03.07.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

SECTION 3 - IMPOSITION OF SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
3.15.03.01 Development Subject to Charges. System development charges are imposed on all new residential
development within the unincorporated area of Yamhill County and for  the change in use, alteration, expansion
or replacement of a dwelling unit if such change in use, alteration, expansion or replacement results in an increase
in the number of dwelling units compared to the present use of the development. The system development charges
shall be paid  in addition to all other fees, charges and assessments due for development, and are intended to
provide funds only for parks and recreation capital improvements necessitated by new development.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.03.02 Rates of Charges; Offset.
a) The County hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the report attached as Exhibit “A” to this ordinance
entitled “Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charges Methodology Report ”, dated
March 9, 1994. Exhibit “A” is expressly made a part of this ordinance by reference.
b) Based on the methodology report attached as Exhibit “A” , the County hereby adopts a system development
charge at the following rates for the following types of dwelling units:

TYPE OF DWELLING UNIT  SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE PER UNIT
 Single Family ........................................................................$403.68
 Multi-Family (for each unit) .................................................$294.58
 Mobile Home ........................................................................$338.22

c) Upon request by the applicant made prior to issuance of the building permit, any system development charge
imposed by this ordinance shall be reduced by the amount previously paid as a fee to the Park Trust Fund
under Section 10.40.06.05 of the Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance, that was attributable to the parcel
for which the applicant’s building permit or development permit has been issued.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.03.03 Payment of Charges. Except as may be provided elsewhere in this ordinance, applicants for building
permits within Yamhill County shall pay the applicable system development charges prior to the issuance of the
permit.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.03.04 Exemptions. The following development shall be exempt from payment of the parks  and recreation
system development charges:
a) Non-residential development.
b) Alterations, expansion or replacement of an existing dwelling unit where no additional dwelling units are
created.
c) The construction of accessory buildings or structures which will not create additional dwelling units and which
do not create additional demands on the County’s capital improvements.
d) Development with vested rights, determined as follows:
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 5 of 9
i) Any owner of land which was the subject of a building permit or development permit issued prior
to the effective date of this ordinance may petition the County for a vested rights determination
which would exempt the landowner from the provisions of this ordinance for the property subject
to the permit. Such petition shall be evaluated by the County Counsel and a decision made by the
Board of County Commissioners based on the following criteria:
ii) The existence of a valid, unexpired permit issued by the County authorizing the specific
development for which a determination is sought;
iii) Substantial expenditures or obligations made or incurred in reliance  upon the authorizing
governmental act;
iv) Other factors that demonstrate it is highly inequitable to deny the owner the opportunity to
complete the previously approved development under the conditions of approval by requiring the
owner to comply with the requirements of this ordinance. For the purposes of this paragraph, the
following factors shall be  considered in determining whether it is inequitable to deny the  owner
the opportunity to complete the previously approved development:
1. Whether the injury suffered by the owner outweighs the  public cost of allowing the
development to go forward without payment of the system development charges required by
this ordinance; and
2. Whether the expenses or obligations for the development were made or incurred prior to the
effective date of this Ordinance.
e) Temporary placement of a manufactured dwelling authorized under the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance
as a conditional use where the placement is allowed in conjunction with an existing dwelling as a temporary
use for the term of a hardship suffered by the existing resident or relative.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.03.05 Credits. The County shall grant a credit against the system development charges imposed pursuant to
Sections 3.15.03.01 and 3.15.03.02 for the donation or construction of qualified public improvements.
a) A qualified public improvement is land or a capital facility which is:
i) Required as a condition of development approval;
ii) Identified in the capital improvement plan adopted pursuant to Section 3.15.04.04; and
1. Not located on or contiguous to property that is the subject of development approval, or
2. Located in whole or in part on or contiguous to property that is the subject of development
approval and required to be built larger or with greater capacity than is necessary for the
particular development project to which the improvement fee is related.
b) Prior to issuance of a building permit or development permit, the applicant shall submit to the Director of
Planning and Development a proposed plan and esti mate of cost for contributions of qualified public
improvements. The proposed plan and estimate shall include:
i) a designation of the development for which the proposed plan is being submitted;
ii) a legal description of any land proposed to be donated and a written  appraisal prepared in
conformity with Section 3.15.03.05(c)(i);
iii) a list of the contemplated capital improvements contained within the plan;
iv) an estimate of proposed construction costs certified by a professional architect or engineer; and
v) a proposed time schedule for completion of the proposed plan.
c) The credit provided for construction of a qualified public improvement shall be only for the cost of that portion
of such improvement that exceeds the minimum standard facility size or capacity needed to serve the particular
development project or property. The applicant shall have the burden of demonstrating that a particular
improvement qualifies for credit. The amount of credit to be applied shall be determined according to the
following standards of valuation:
i) The value of donated lands shall be based upon a written appraisal of fair market value by a
qualified and professional appraiser based upon comparable sales of similar property between
unrelated parties in a bargaining transaction; and
ii) The cost of anticipated construction of qualified public improvements shall be based upon cost
estimates certified by a professional architect or engineer.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 6 of 9
d) If a donation or construction of a qualified public improvement gives rise to a credit amount greater than the
amount of the parks and recreation SDC that would otherwise be levied against the project receiving
development approval, the excess credit may be applied against parks and recreation SDC ’s that accrue in
subsequent phases of the original development project. Any excess credit must be used not later than ten years
from the date the credit is given.
e) The decision of the Director of Planning and Development as to whether to accept the proposed plan of
contribution and the value of such contribution shall be in writing and issued within fifteen (15) working days
of the review. A copy shall be provided to the applicant.
f) Any applicant who submits a proposed plan pursuant to this Section and desires the immediate issuance of a
building permit or development permit, shall pay the applicable system development charges. Said payment
shall be deemed paid under “ protest” and sha ll not be construed as a waiver of any review rights. Any
difference between the amount paid and the amount due, as determined by the Director of Planning and
Development, shall be refunded to the applicant. In no event shall a refund by County under this subsection
exceed the amount originally paid by the applicant.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.03.06 Appeals and Review Hearings.
a) An applicant who is required to pay a system development charge shall have the right to request a hearing to
review the denial of either of the following:
i) A petition for vested rights pursuant to Section 3.15.03.04(d), or
ii) A proposed credit for contribution of qualified public improvements  pursuant to Section
3.15.03.05.
b) Such hearing shall be requested by the applicant within thirty (30) days of the date of first receipt of the denial.
Failure to request a hearing within the time provided shall be deemed a waiver of such right.
c) The request for hearing shall be filed with the Board and shall contain the following:
i) The name and address of the applicant;
ii) The legal description of the property in question;
iii) If issued, the date the building permit or development permit was issued;
iv) A brief description of the nature of the development being undertaken pursuant to the building
permit or development permit;
v) If paid, the date the system development charges were paid; and
vi) A statement of the reasons why the applicant is requesting the hearing.
d) Upon receipt of such request, the County shall schedule a hearing before the Board at a regularly scheduled
meeting or a special meeting called for the purpose of conducting the hearing and shall provide the applicant
written notice of the time and place of the hearing. Such hearing shall be held within forty- five (45) days of
the date the request for hearing was filed.
e) Such hearing before the Board shall be conducted in a manner designed to obtain all information and evidence
relevant to the requested hearing. Formal rules of civil procedures and evidence shall not be applicable;
however, the hearing shall be conducted in a fair and impartial manner with each party having an opportunity
to be heard and to present information and evidence.
f) Any applicant who requests a hearing pursuant to this Section and desires the immediate issuance of a building
permit or development permit shall pay prior to or at the time the request for hearing is filed the applicable
system development charges pursuant to Section 3.15.03.02. Said payment shall be deemed paid under
“protest” and shall not be construed as a waiver of any review rights.
g) An applicant may request a hearing under this Section without paying the applicable system development
charges, but no building permit or development permit shall be issued until such system development charges
are paid in the amount initially calculated or the amount approved upon completion of the review provided in
this Section.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.03.07 Review. This ordinance and the Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System  Development Charge
Methodology Report shall be reviewed at least once every four years. The review shall consider new estimates of
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 7 of 9
population and other socioeconomic data, changes in the  cost of construction and land acquisition, and
adjustments to the assumptions, conclusions or findings set forth in the report adopted by Section 3.15.03.02. The
purpose of this review is to evaluate  and revise, if necessary, the rates of the system development charges to
assure that they do not exceed the reasonably anticipated costs of the County’s capital improvements. In the event
the review of the ordinance or the report alters or changes the assumptions, conclusions and findings of the report,
or alters or changes the amount of system development charges, the report adopted by reference in Section
3.15.03.02 shall be amended and updated to reflect the assumptions, conclusions  and findings of such reviews
and Section 3.15.03.02 shall be amended to adopt by reference such updated reports.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

SECTION 4 - RECEIPT AND EXPENDITURE OF SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES
3.15.04.01 Trust Account. The County hereby establishes a separate trust account in a fund to be designated as
the “Parks and Recreation SDC Account ”, and which shall be maintained  separate and apart from all other
accounts of the County. All parks and recreation system  development charge payments shall be deposited into
this fund immediately upon receipt.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.04.02 Use of System Development Charges . The monies deposited into the trust  account shall be used
solely for the purpose of providing capital improvements necessitated by development, including, but not limited
to:
a) design and construction plan preparation;
b) permitting and fees;
c) land and materials acquisition, including any costs of acquisition or condemnation;
d) construction of improvements and structures;
e) design and construction of new drainage facilities required by the construction of  capital improvements and
structures;
f) relocating utilities required by the construction of improvements and structures;
g) landscaping;
h) construction management and inspection;
i) surveying, soils and material testing;
j) acquisition of capital equipment;
k) repayment of monies transferred or borrowed from any budgetary fund of the County which were used to
fund any of the capital improvements as herein provided;
l) payment of principal and interest, necessary reserves and costs of issuance under any bonds or other
indebtedness issued by the County to fund capital improvements;
m) direct costs of complying with the provisions of ORS 223.297 to 223.314, including the costs of developing
system development charges methodologies, providing an annual accounting of system development charges
expenditures or preparing a capital improvement plan.
n) administrative costs associated with collection of system development charge revenues.
o) any other costs directly attributable to the provision of capital improvements necessitated by development.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.04.03 Prohibited Uses of System Development Charges. Funds on deposit in system development charge
trust accounts shall not be used for:
a) any expenditure that would be classified as a routine maintenance or repair expense; or
b) costs associated with the construction of administrative office facilities that are more than an incidental part
of other capital improvements.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 8 of 9
3.15.04.04 Authorized Capital Improvements.
a) Any capital improvement being funded wholly or in part  with system development charges revenue shall be
included in the County’s capital improvement program. The capital improvement program shall:
i) list the specific capital improvement projects that may be funded with system development charges
revenues;
ii) provide the cost of each capital improvement project; and
iii) provide the estimated timing of each capital improvement project.
b) The capital improvement program in effect at the time of the adoption of this ordinance is attached to this
ordinance as t he Exhibit “ B” entitled “Yamhill County Parks and Recreation Capital Improvement Plan
(1994-1997).” The capital improvement plan may be amended from time to time by Board Order without the
amendment of this ordinance. Any amendment of the capital  improvement program shall be consistent with
the requirements of this ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.04.05 Investment of Trust Account Revenues . Any funds on deposit in the  system development charges
trust account which are not immediately necessary for expenditure  shall be invested by the County as deemed
appropriate by the county treasurer. All income  derived from such investments shall be deposited in the system
development charges trust account and used as provided herein.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.04.06 Refunds of System Development Charges . System development charges  shall be refunded in
accordance with the following requirements:
a) An applicant or owner shall be eligible to apply for a refund if:
i) The building permit or development permit has expired, and the development authorized by such
permit has not been substantially completed; or
ii) The system development charges have not been expended or encumbered prior to the end of the
fiscal year immediately following the tenth anniversary of the date upon which such charges were
paid. For the purposes of this Section, system development charges collected shall be deemed to
be expended or encumbered on the basis of the first system development charges in shall be the
first system development charges out.
b) The application for refund shall be filed with the Director of Planning and Development and co ntain the
following:
i) The name and address of the applicant;
ii) The location of the property which was the subject of the system development charges;
iii) A notarized sworn statement that the petitioner is the then current owner of the property on behalf
of which the system development charges were  paid, including proof of ownership, such as a
certified copy of the latest recorded deed;
iv) The date the system development charges were paid;
v) A copy of the receipt of payment for the system development charges; and, if appropriate,
vi) The date the building permit or development permit was issued and the date of expiration.
c) The application shall be filed within ninety (90) days of the expiration of the building permit or development
permit or within ninety (90) days of the end of the fiscal year following the tenth anniversary of the date upon
which the system development charges were paid. Failure to timely apply for a refund of the  system
development charges shall waive any right to a refund.
d) Within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of a petition for refund, the County will advise the petitioner
of the status of the request for refund, and if such request is valid, the system development charges shall be
returned to the petitioner.
e) A building permit or development permit which is subsequently issued for a development on the same
property which was the subject of a refund shall pay the systems development charges as required by Section
3 of this ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 3.15: Yamhill County Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Code Page 9 of 9
3.15.04.07 Annual Accounting Report . The County shall prepare an annual report  accounting for system
development charges, including the total amount of system development  charges revenue collected, and the
capital improvement projects that were funded.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

3.15.04.08 Challenge of Expenditures. Any citizen or other interested person may challenge an expenditure of
system development charges revenues.
a) Such challenge shall be submitted, in writing, to the Director of Planning and Development for review within
two years following the subject expenditure, and shall include the following information:
i) The name and address of the citizen or other interested person challenging the expenditure;
ii) The amount of the expenditure, the project, payee or purpose, and the approximate date on which
it was made; and
iii) The reason why the expenditure is being challenged.
b) If the County determines that the expenditure was not made in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance and other relevant laws, a reimbursement of system development charges trust account revenues
from other revenue sources shall be made within one year following the determination that the expenditures
were not appropriate.
c) The County shall make written notification of the results of the expenditure review to the citizen or other
interested person who requested the review within ten (10) days of completion of the review.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

SECTION 5 - SEVERABILITY
3.15.05.01 Severability. If any clause, section or provision of this ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional
or invalid for any reason or cause, the remaining portion of said ordinance shall be in full force and effect and be
valid as if such invalid portion thereof had not been incorporated herein.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 593 eff 06/12/95]

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

Adopted via Ordinance No. 573 on 06/08/1994, effective 06/13/1994
 Repealed via Ordinance No. 593 on 06/07/1995, effective 06/12/1995

Adopted via Ordinance No. 593 on 06/07/1995, effective 06/12/1995