APR 2 +: 2003
             IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OG OR BGRIN P 4 232
                                                                                    .            yi        4     a ts fe

                                 FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL                              au OO weds
                  SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Application for a Zone Change )
from VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential to)
AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry for a Parcel Located at )               ORDINANCE 726
24285 NE Zard Lane, Newberg, Tax Lots              )
3219CA-901 and 902, Applicant Robin Vachter,       )
Docket Z-02-02, and Declaring an Emergency         )

        THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business on April 24, 2003, Commissioners Leslie Lewis and Kathy
George being present and Mary P. Stern excused.

        IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Robin Vachter applied to the Department of
Planning and Development (Planning Docket Z-02-02) for a zone change from VLDR 2.5 to AF-10
on a parcel known as 24285 NE Zard Lane, Newberg, Tax Lots 3219CA-901 and 902.. On March
6, 2003, the Planning Commission held a hearing on the application and forwarded the request to
the Board of Commissioners with a recommendation for approval. On April 10, 2003, the Board
deliberated and voted 3-0 to approve the application, and directed staff to prepare the necessary
findings for approval; NOW, THEREFORE,

        IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD that the application is approved with
conditions as detailed in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference
incorporated. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill
County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

        DONE      this 24" day of April, 2003, at McMinnville, Oregon.

                                         xX       ILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                          Chair                 “LESLIE LEWIS
                                                  Kath          <frprys
                                          Commissioner!        | KATHY GEORGE
APPROVED AS TO FORM:                                  Unavailable for signature
SK           42      p     2              Commissioner             MARY P. STERN

Rick Sanai
Assistant County Counsel                                            F:\Users\sanair\LU\WachterBOFindingsZ-02-02.wpd

                                                                                             ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                                               Page 1

                                                                                                      B.0. #6328
                                                                               uk     69 ce L8G
                                          ORDINANCE 726
                                           EXHIBIT “A”

HEARING DATE:          March 6, 2003 before the Planning Commission

DOCKET NO.:            Z-02-02

REQUEST:               Zone change from VLDR-2.5 Very Low Density Residential to AF-10 Agriculture
                       Forestry Small Holding. The purpose of this request is to allow breeding, raising
                       and training of equines. An approval of this request would also provide for riding
                       lessons to general public.

APPLICANT:             Robin L. Vachter

TAX LOTS:              3219CA-901 and 902

LOCATION:              24285 NE Zard Lane, Newberg, Oregon

CRITERIA:              Sections 501 and 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance; the Yamhill
                       County Comprehensive Plan.

FINDINGS:

A. Background Facts

1.    Lot Size: Five (5) acres. The property is made up ofa southern portion of Lot G and Lot F of
      Ramsey Terrace Estates Subdivision. This subdivision was platted on May 2, 1912.

      Access:   Zard Lane from Hwy. 99W.

      On-site Land Use: Tax Lot 3219CA-901, 902, located on the east side of Stevenson Road and
      south side of Zard Lane, is wooded and relatively flat. The parcel contains a dwelling and two
      large accessory buildings. There is an ongoing equestrian operation which includes raising, training,
      selling ofhorses and providing riding lessons in cooperation with Chehalem Parks and Recreation.
      The applicant also submitted a letter from City of McMinnville expressing an interest in the
      equestrian program provided by the applicant.

      Surrounding
               Land Use: The surrounding area contains rural residential and small scale farm uses
      on lots of approximately 1.5 to 10 acres in size. Inrecent years, several subdivisions have been
      created to the west and south of the parcel. The surrounding parcels are very similar to the subject
      area. Adjacent parcel to the southwest contains a cemetery. Chehalem Creek to the east of the

                                                                                         ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                                  Page 2
                                                                             aut 49 nce 184
       subject parcel forms the Newberg Urban Growth Boundary (UGB). The Newberg City Limits
       boundary is approximately 700 feet to the east of the subject area.

5.     Surrounding Zoning:      Adjacent land to the south and east is currently zoned AF-10
       Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding. Land to the north and west is zoned VLDR-2.5 Very Low
       Density Residential.

6.     Soils: Sheet 15 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey indicates that the entire property is composed
       of Amity (Am) agricultural Class II high-value soil. This type of soil exhibits slopes of 0 to 2%.

ve     Taxes: The entire property is taxed at market value.

8.     Water:   Existing well.

9.     Sewage Disposal: Existing septic system.

10.    Previous Actions: None.

11.    Discussion: The VLDR zoning district allows one horse per one acre of land owned by the
       propertyowner. The applicant wishes to keep a larger number of horses on the subject parcel
       than is currently allowed in the VLDR zoning district. The applicant stated that she wishes to
       breed, raise and train horses. As apart ofher activity, the applicant also intends to provide riding
       lessons to the public.

B. Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

1.     The request complies with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance
       (YCZO) Section 1208.02.         These provisions are:

       (A)      That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
                applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       (B)      That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
                economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
                the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
                allowed by the zone.

       (C)   _ That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
                density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
                utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                district.

                                                                                          ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                                     Page 3
                                                                       sun TS ves 4482
(D) — That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are either
        unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
        other factors.

(E)   — That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
        exceptions, if applicable.

The zone change requires that the request complies with the goals and policies of the Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan. The 1976 Comprehensive Plan Map indicated the land is plan
designated VLDR Very Low Density Residential. This was reaffirmed by the 1980 Exception
Process as part of Code Area 1.8. The plan amendment portion of this request is not necessary
in order to change the zoning district designation. There are several properties in the area which
are plan designated VLDR but are zoned AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding. The smallest
minimum lot size this plan designation allows is two (2) acres. The property is five (5) acres in size.
The present zoning on the subject property is VLDR-2.5. The AF-10 zone allows placement of
asingle family dwelling on a parcel subject to septic and building permits. The proposed zoning
designation of AF-10 allows the smallest minimum lot size of five (5) acres using lot size averaging.
The AF-10 zone also allows farm use without the limitation on livestock. The subject parcel does
contain a dwelling.

Regarding Comprehensive Plan goals and policies, the land is currently planned and zoned for rural
residential use. Policy II.A.1.a states:

        Yamhill County will provide for preservation of farm lands through appropriate
        zoning, recognizing comparative economic returns to agriculture and alternative
        uses, changing ownership patterns and management practices, changing market
        conditions for agricultural produce, and various financial incentives.

In addition, Policy II.A.2.a states:

        Yamhill County will continue to preserve areas for farm use which exhibit Class I
        through IV soils as identified in the Capability Classification System of the U.S. Soil
        Conservation Service.

The entire site is composed of Class II soil and is primarily committed to the equestrian operation.

The Comprehensive Plan commits the county to protect farm resources, so present use of the
parcel should be the determining factor for an approval of this application. The site is currently
used for an equestrian operation and the applicant stated that she will continue with the operation.
(Finding A.3).

Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.H.1.g. states:

Agricultural, forestry and mineral resource-oriented industry will be accommodated in areas
close to the resources utilized, provided that such industrial uses are compatible with any
                                                                                     ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                              Page 4
                                                                 FNL    rs)   47    LBS

nearby urban development, city water supply and sewerage are not required, and waste
discharges constitute no threat to the environment.

Even though the equestrian operation is within 700 feet of the City of Newberg and near rural
residential uses, the operation existed for many years without creating any conflicts with the other
uses, and no city water or sewer is available to, or required by the equestrian operation.

A significant part of the economy of Yamhill County is based upon agricultural and forestry related
industries.

Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LF.1.b. states:
Yamhill County will encourage economic development projects which do not conflict with
the predominant timber and agricultural character of the county.

The proposed equestrian operation is an agricultural activity.

Regarding criterion 1208.02 (B), the need relevant to this request is related an equestrian operation
which will provide recreational and educational opportunities for children and adults in Yamhill
County. The applicant submitted a letter from the City of McMinnville supporting this use. The
City of McMinnville Parks and Recreation Department wishes to establish a relationship with the
equestrian operation as noted in the letter. The applicant already has a working relationship with
the Chehalem Parks and Recreation Department. The present zoning does not allow more than
five horses on the parcel, which is not enough to continue the operation and provide services to
both Park and Recreation programs. Criterion (B) requires the consideration of other land zoned
for the requested use and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone. While much of the
county has lands in resource zoning which allows equestrian operation, the operation has been in
existence on this property for some time. Since the applicant has a significant investment in the
parcel and the improvements, it would be difficult to change the location of the operation.

Regarding criterion 1208.02 (C), as noted in Finding A.4, the surrounding properties consists of
rural residential and small scale farm uses. Approval of this zone change would allow establishment
of an equestrian operation which is similar to farm uses in the surrounding area. Additionally, the
request would limit the creation ofnew parcels and the ability to develop dwellings. As stated
above, the property is five (5) acres in size which could be divided into two parcels and could have
an additional single family dwelling established without additional land use approval. The number
of permitted dwellings is reduced to one by this change in zoning to AF-10. Regarding theneed
for utilities and services, the property already has a well and septic system for a single family
residence. An equestrian operation would need adequate water, access and on-site parking.
Water is provided by an on-site well. Access is by Zard Lane, and is certainly adequate. The
subject parcel is five (5) acres in size and, therefore, should not have problem providing adequate
parking for the operation. Based on the applicant’s preliminary map, there appears to be adequate
room for the facilities needed to establish the use.

                                                                                   ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                            Page 5
                                                                        can TOD ong ABS
5:    Regarding criterion 1208.02 (D), the farm use is already established on the subject tract, see
      Finding B.3, above.

6.    Regarding criterion (E), the subject area is part of an exception Code Area 1.8 which was
      excepted on April 23, 1980 as part of Yamhill County Ordinance No.234, therefore, the area is
      not subject to Goals 3 and 4. The proposed 2.5-acre minimum lot size is not considered to be an
      urban scale of development, so Goal 14 does not apply. No other Goals apply to this request, and
      no additional exception is required.

Gc.   Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis

1.    The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must be addressed.
      OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

      ()      Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
              regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that
              allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of
              service of the facility. This shall be accomplished by either:
              (a)     Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                       capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;
              (b)     Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide transportation
                      facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with the
                      requirements of this division; or,
              ())     Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to reduce
                      demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through other modes.

      (2)     A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a transportation
             facility if it:
              (a)      Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned transportation
                      facility;
              (b)     Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
              (c)   _ Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of travel or
                      access which are inconsistent        with   the functional   classification   of a
                      transportation facility; or
              (d)      Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                      acceptable level identified in the TSP.

      Regarding (1) and (2), The applicant stated that she does not anticipate more than six automobiles
      per day. This calculation is averaged over a year and is based on how many people she can handle
      inaday. The Planning Department coordinated with the Public Works Department to assure that
      the use would not exceed the capacity of the road. The response from the Public Works Director,
      William A. Gille, P.E., P.L.S., concluded that six additional automobiles on Zard Lane would not
      require a traffic impact study and he does not anticipate any degradation to the roadway.

                                                                                       ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                                    Page 6
                                                                                FILE   fo     rape   LASS

       Therefore, it appears that the proposed use is consistent with the identified function, capacity, and
       level of service of the local roads.

CONCLUSIONS:

1,     The request is for a zone change from VLDR-2.5 Very Low Density Residential to AF-10
       Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding

2      The request complies with the Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies.

3.     The requested use is appropriate for the area considering the level of services needed and
       available, and considering surrounding development.

4.     The request complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

Based on the above findings, analysis, and conclusions, the Board approves the request by Robin L.
Vachter for a zone change from VLDR-2.5 Very Low Density Residential to AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry
Small Holding   on a tract of land identified as Tax Lot 3219CA-901 and 902.

                                                                                            ORDINANCE 726
                                                                                                      Page 7
_                               _                                           :          wus   73    ae        LBB

                EXHIBIT                "B"        FOR         ORDINANCE                      NO.        726

                              ZONE CHANGE FROM
                 VLDR-2.5 VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO
                 AF-1@ AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY SMALL HOLDING

                                                                                                        233,08
                                                                     <x
                                                          Mi S SOKO

                                                                     8
                                                                     se

                                                       SKS eeSKS
                                                               ‘SKK
                                                                soso
                                                       x 282 “ S55
                                                                Neca
                                                                 6
                                                             teoS
                                                                 x
                                                         SxS<%
                                                             <S
                                                             S
                                                        <x
                                                         i

                      SOMOS                                         S28 <
                               220

PREPARED   BY   YAMHILL   COUNTY     DEPARTMENT   OF    PLANNING   AND   DEVELOPMENT

                                                                                                  ORDINANCE 726
           ‘| AREA SUBJECT     TO AMENDMENT                                                            EXHIBIT °B"