BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                                  FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                                    SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

    In the Matter of Approval of a Zone Change from EF-20
    Exclusive Farm Use, to AF-20 Agriculture/Forestry,                                          Ordinance 885

                                                                                         eeee
    Applicant Bryce Roberts, Tax Lot 5420-300, Planning
    Docket Z-01-13, and Declaring an Emergency

                     THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
    sat for the transaction of county business on October 24, 2013, Commissioners Kathy George and
    Mary P. Stern being present, Commissioner Allen Springer excused.

                     IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Bryce Roberts applied for a Zone Change from
    EF-20, Exclusive Farm Use to AF-20, Agriculture/Forestry; and

              IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at a
    duly noticed public hearing on October 3, 2013, and voted unanimously to approve the application,
    NOW, THEREFORE,

              THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS: that the application is approved for the reasons
    stated in the findings attached as Exhibit "A"and incorporated into this Ordinance by this reference.
    The Yamhill County Zoning Map is amended as shown in Exhibit "B," also incorporated into this
    ordinance by reference.               This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
    citizens of Yamhill                 County,   and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
    immediately.

                     DONE this 24th day of October, 2013, at McMinnville, Oregon.

    ATTEST:                                         aa.) SMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                                         a

    BRIAN VAN BERGEN 3

                                                                               Q
                                                                                   ww)
                                                                                            MARY P. STERN
                                                        SS
    APPROVED AS TO,FORM:                                           Unavailable for signature
a         Vy
           > ; is)                                     Commissioner                         ALLEN SPRINGER

               Sadlo, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                                           B.0.13-b tt
    F.AUsers\whitec\ORDS\Ord 885, wpd                                                                           Ordinance 885
                              EXHIBIT A —- ORDINANCE 885
                               FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL

DOCKET NO.:                  Z-01-13

REQUEST:                     Zone change from          EF-20,   Exclusive    Farm      use      to     AF-20,
                             Agriculture/Forestry

APPLICANT:                   Bryce Roberts

TAX LOT:                     5420-300, Lot 22 of Amity Heights Subdivision

LOCATION:                    North of property addressed 4047 SE Rice Lane, Amity

CRITERIA:                    Sections 402, 403 and 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                             Ordinance; the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Goals and
                             Policies.

COMMENTS:                    Public Works - No response.
                             SWCD - No response.
                             Amity Rural Fire Department           - No conflicts.
                             DLCD - No response.
                             City of Amity- No conflicts.
                             Water Master - No response.

FINDINGS:

     Background Facts:

     Property size: Approximately 6.7 acres. The applicant also owns Lot 26 of Tax Lot
     5420-300 just to the south of the subject lot.

     Access: Amity Vineyards Road.

     On-site Land Use: The subject parcel is vacant with no structures present.         The majority of
     the property appears to have trees on it.

     Surrounding   Land    Use:    The   area    contains   a mixture   of farm,     forestry        and   rural
     residential uses on parcels of approximately 2 to 20 acres. To the northeast is a vineyard.
     Approximately one quarter mile to the southwest is the city limits of Amity.

     Surrounding Zoning:      Land to the east, northeast and south are zoned EF-20 and EF-80,
     Exclusive    Farm    use.  Land to the west and northwest          is zoned   AF-20,
     Agriculture/Forestry. To the west, across Amity Vineyards Road, is zoned PWS, Public
     Works/Safety, and is owned by the city of Amity.

     Water: The applicant is proposing to serve the property by city water.

     Sewage Disposal: To be provided by an on-site septic system.
                                                                               Exhibit   “A” - Page
                                                                                     Ordinance 885
                                                                                       Bo. (Boe
Staff Report
Docket Z-01-13 (Bryce Roberts)
Page 2

8.      Fire Protection: Amity Rural Fire District.

9.      Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey Maps show the majority of the parcel is Yamhill
        (YaC and YaF), high-value and non-high value farmland, respectively. The remainder of
       the property is Steiwer (StF), non-high value farmland.

10.     Taxes: The parcel is receiving farm deferral (includes Lot 26, which is in the same
        ownership to the south).

11.     Previous zoning: From. 1976 to 1993 the subject property was zoned AF-20.                           In response
        to House Bill 3661 (1993), the property was rezoned to EF-20 Exclusive. Farm at the
        direction of the staff of the Department of Land Conservation and Development. The
        EF-20 zoning became effective on December 29, 1993.

12,     Overlay Zones: None.

B.      Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

1.      The decision on the requested zone change is based on a determination that the request
        complies with the review criteria found in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning
        Ordinance, as follows:

       Review Criteria for Amendments                 to      or     within   Exclusive        Farm          Use    and
       Agricultural/Forestry Zones

       A quasi-judicial zone change to (1) amend the designation of land from Exclusive Farm
        Use, Agriculture/Forestry, or Forest to another of these zones, or (2) change the minimum
       lot size of land designated Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry, may be
       authorized,   pursuant    to   Subsection   1208.01,        provided   that   the    request     satisfies    all
       applicable requirements of this ordinance, and also                    provided       that     the     applicant
       demonstrates compliance with the following criteria:

       A,      The proposed amendment shall comply with the                      goals,     policies,        and   other
               applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan.

       B.      The proposed designation shall be appropriate for the existing or intended use of
               the property.

        Cc     The proposed amendment shall result in an area of at least                   160 contiguous acres
               with the requested designation, including adjacent land.

       D.      For proposed changes within or to an Exclusive Farm                   Use designation, the new
               minimum lot size shall be appropriate to maintain                     the existing commercial
               agricultural enterprise in the area.
                                                                                           Exhibit “A” - Page
                                                                                                 Ordinance 8&5
Staff Report
Docket Z-01-13 (Bryce Roberts)
Page 3

      E.      For proposed changes within or to an Agriculture/Forestry designation, the new
              minimum lot size shall be shown to assure:

              1.     The opportunity for economically efficient forest and agriculture practices
                     typically occurring in the area; and

              2.     The opportunity for the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree
                     species; and

              3.     The conservation of other forest values found on forest lands.

      EF.    Any   amendment      that would   change   the zone    map     designation    to reduce         the
              minimum    lot     size   on   property   within     an     Exclusive     Farm         Use      or
             Agriculture/Forestry district shall not be granted final approval by Yamhill County
              until the amendment has been considered and approved by the Land Conservation
              and Development Commission pursuant to ORS 215.780(2).                  The following rules
              shall apply:

             L.      Conditional approval.   Following receipt of an application for a zone
                     change as otherwise provided by this ordinance, the county shall determine
                     whether to grant or deny the application in accordance with criteria
                     established in this section 1208.03. If the application is granted, the
                     county shall enter an order of conditional approval, subject to final
                     approval by the Land Conservation and Development Commission.

             2.      Referral of Order of Conditional Approval.           After conditional approval by
                     Yamhill County, the application, county findings, order of conditional
                     approval and a request for Commission action shall be referred to the
                     Department of Land Conservation and Development.

              3.     Final Approval.     An amendment conditionally approved by Yamhill
                     County shall not take effect until the county adopts an order or ordinance
                     authorizing final approval after receipt of written confirmation of the
                     county's conditional approval by the Land Conservation and Development
                     Commission.

      The above criteria are addressed in Findings B.2 through B.5 below.

2.    Regarding criterion (A), applicable goals from the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land
      Use Plan, Section ILA.1, Goal reads:

              To conserve Yamhill County's farm lands for the production of crops and livestock
             and to ensure that the conversion of farm land to urban use where necessary and
             appropriate occurs in an orderly and economical manner.

                                                                                 Exhibit       “a”    -    Page
                                                                                          Ordinance         885
Staff Report
Docket Z-01-13 (Bryce Roberts)
Page 4

        Section [1.A.2, Goal reads:

                 To conserve Yamhill County’s soil resources in a manner reflecting their suitability
                Jor forestry, agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the
                purposes designated on the county plan map.

        Section .B.1, Goal reads:

                To conserve and to manage efficiently the county's forest and range resources,
                thereby ensuring a sustained yield of forest products, adequate grazing areas for
                domestic livestock, habitat for fish and wildlife, protection of forest soils and
                watershed, and preservation of recreational opportunities.

        As shown by the 2011 aerial photo, the majority of the property is forested and the
        applicant has stated the property is primarily made up of steep slopes and better suited for
        forest uses. The proposed zone, AF-20, recognizes and allows both farming and forestry
        uses.   This mixed use zoning would more accurately reflect the existing uses on the
        subject property. The applicant is not proposing an urban use; the minimum lot size is to
        remain 20 acres.

        According to the Yamhill County Soil Survey, all of the property is capable of producing
        timber. The timber yields of the soils vary from 70 to 125 cubic feet per acre per year. In
        addition, approximately one third of the property is composed of high-value farmland. The
        requested zone change will recognize the potential for farm and forestry uses on the land
        and preserve the County’s soil resources for their suitability for farm and forest use.

3,      Regarding criterion (B), as mentioned above, the subject parcel is a mixture of farm and
        forest use; the zone change from an exclusive farm zone to an agriculture and forestry zone
        would more accurately reflect the potential use of the property.

4.      Regarding criterion (C), the subject area proposed for rezoning is approximately 6.7 acres.
        The total contiguous area after the rezoning would be approximately 784 acres.                   This is
        well over the 160-acres required; therefore, the request is consistent with criterion (C).

5.      Regarding criteria (D), (E) and (F), the applicant wishes to keep the minimum lot size at 20
        acres. The 20-acre minimum in the farm and forestry zone was approved by the Land
        Conservation and Development Commission through the process passed by the Oregon
        State Legislature (see HB 3661 passed in 1993).            Since the minimum       lot size is not
        changing, the request satisfies criteria (D), (E) and (F).

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

lL.     The request is for      a     zone   change   from   Exclusive   Farm   use   EF-20     to       AF-20
        Agriculture/Forestry.

                                                                                 Exhibit      “A”    -     Page
                                                                                        Ordinance           885
Staff Report
Docket Z-01-13 (Bryce Roberts)
Page 5

2.       The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.

3.       The zone change is appropriate in that the parcel is a mixture of farm and forestry uses.
         Neither the farm zone, nor the forestry zone alone would be appropriate for this area.

4.       The proposed change is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.03.

Based on the above findings and conclusions, the request by Bryce Roberts, for a zone change
from EF-20, Exclusive Farm Use to AF-20, Agriculture/Forestry Use on Tax Lot 5420-300, Lot 22
of Amity Heights Subdivision, is approved.

                                                                              Exhibit    “A”   ~   Page
                                                                                     Ordinance      aes
                EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. #97
                             ZONE CHANGE
      ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                            OCTOBER 24, 2013
                      FOR A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                      EF-20, EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                   TO
                    AF-20, AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY

                                                                    Bo. (B-oF4
CHANGE APPLIES TO A 6.5 ACRE PORTION OF TAX LOT 5420-300 (Lot 22 of Amity Heights
Subdivision) HIGHLIGHTED ABOVE.                    .             Bj hibed 3"