ew   65 ace 740
                                                                                                        98 SEP -3 pq uy
                          IN THE BOARD        OF COMMISSIONERS                   OF THE    STATE       OF OREGON

                                              FOR THE           COUNTY          OF YAMHILL

                                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

     In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the
     Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan
     Map to Amend the Urban GrowthBoundary
     for the City of Sheridan to Add to the UGB                                         ORDINANCE 660
     and Plan Designate as "Future Urbanizable"
     and “Residential” 1.38 Acres of Land Known
     as Tax Lot 5635-300; Taking an Exception to
     Statewide Goal 3; Applicant City of Sheridan;
     Planning Docket PAZ-4-98; and Declaring an
     Emergency.

               THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY,                                           OREGON    (the Board) sat for
     the    transaction    of   county   business   in       formal   session    on   September   3,    1998,   Commissioners   Ted
     Lopuszynski, Robert Johnstone, and Thomas E.E. Bunn being present.

              WHEREAS, the City of Sheridan has made application in Docket PA-04-98 to amend the City of
     Sheridan Urban Growth Boundary (UGB) to add to the UGB 1.38 acres of land (Tax Lot 5635-300) which
     is designated "AFLH" (Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding) on the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan
     Map,    and to take an exception to Statewide Goal 3 therefor; and

               WHEREAS,          the County action will involve amending the Comprehensive Plan map                          to plan
     designate the subject property as "Future Urbanizable" with the City’s “Residential” Plan designation and
     take an exception to Statewide Goal 3, while maintaining the current “EF-80" (Exclusive Farm Use) zoning
     designation on the property; and

             WHEREAS, this UGB amendment must comply with the seven factors of Statewide Land Use
     Planning Goal 14 ("Urbanization") and the standards required by Goal 2, Part Il(c) (Land Use Planning",
     Part II, Exceptions"); and                          ‘

              WHEREAS, on July 7, 1998, the Sheridan Planning Commission and the Yamhill County Planning
     Commission conducted a joint public hearing regarding the application, received testimony and evidence,
     and upon deliberation voted to recommend that the City Council and the Board of Commissioners approve
     the application; and

             WHEREAS, on August 3, 1998, the City of Sheridan City Council held a duly noticed hearing,
     and adopted Ordinance 1998-9, approving the proposed UGB amendment, designating the subject property
     as “Residential”      on the City Comprehensive Plan, and taking an Exception to Statewide Goal 3, based on
     written findings, and submitted it to the County for adoption; and

               WHEREAS, on August 20, 1998, based upon the facts and record presented containing the
     justification for the proposed UGB amendment, attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "A",
     the Board deliberated and voted unanimously to grant tentative approval for the proposed UGB amendment
     and Goal 3 Exception, and directed staff to prepare written findings for approval of the application; and

                                                                                                            £0.98 ~ 697
                                                                                                                  ORDINANCE 660
                                                                                                                          Page 1
oy BS ve TAL
             WHEREAS, the Board finds that adoption of the proposed UGB amendment will comply with the
    seven factors of Statewide Land Use Planning Goal 14 ("Urbanization") and the standards required by Goal
    2, Part I(c) ("Land Use Planning", Part II, Exceptions"), and that the ordinance is necessary to allow the
    change in the City of Sheridan UGB; and

             WHEREAS, the attached findings and agreement demonstrate that approval of this amendment to
    the City of Sheridan UGB is in the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill County; Now Therefore,

             THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

            Section 1.      The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974) Map, as amended, is hereby
    amended to add to the City of Sheridan Urban Growth Boundary (UGB), and plan designate as "Future
    Urbanizable," and “Residentiai” land known as Tax Lot 5635-300, as more particularly set forth in Exhibit
    "B" attached hereto and made a part of this ordinance by reference.

             Section 2.              Tn adopting the UGB amendment specified in Section 1, the County hereby takes
    an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 3.

           Section 3.       The findings attached as Exhibit "A", and incorporated herein by reference, are
    hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

            Section 4      This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens
    of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

                   E4tieMicMinnville, Oregon this 3rd day of September, 1998.
                 BOARD        Op
                          x                         YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                                     At        ae ailable    for     sang   tpe.
                                                    Chairman                TED LOPUSZYNSKI

                                                        Bhar thule
                                                    Commissioner
                                                              C) ROBERT JOHNSTONE

    FORM APPR 7,                   BY:

     GL                                                Themes           6.8. Bu
   BOHN Cc. PAY                                     Commissioner            THOMAS    E.E. BUNN
   POHN C County Counsel

    lu\paz4-98

                                                                                                  ORDINANCE 660
                                                                                                            Page 2
“sue BD vue M2
                                           ORDINANCE 660
                                             Exhibit “A”

     ADOPTED BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                                '     September 3, 1998

     DOCKET:                    County Docket PAZ-04-98; City Planning File 98-05-13

     REQUEST:                   Expansion of the City of Sheridan Urban Growth Boundary to .
                                include a 1.38 acre parcel, and change the Comprehensive Plan
                                map designation from the county Agriculture/Forestry Large
                                Holding to the city Residential Plan Designation, and take an
                                exception to Goal 3.

     APPLICANT:                 City of Sheridan

     OWNER:                     Gerald, Mary and Terry Cannady, Ora and Katie Garver

     TAX LOT:                   5635-300

     LOCATION:                  Between West Valley Highway (business 18) and the Yamhill
                                River, on the east side of Sheridan

     REVIEW CRITERIA:           Sheridan Urban Area Growth Management Agreement; OAR
                                660-04, Exception Process; the Yamhill County Comprehensive
                                Plan; City of Sheridan Comprehensive Plan.

     FINDINGS:

     A,   Background Facts:

     1.   Property size: 1.38 acres

     2.   Access: West Valley Highway

     3.   On-site Land Use: The parcel contains a narrow, level area adjacent to the highway,
          then slopes steeply down to the Yamhill River. The property contains scattered trees
          and brush.

     4.   Current Zoning: EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use

                                                                                     Ordinance 660
                                                                                        Exhibit “A”
                                                                                            Page 1
oy BD    ce 743

          Surrounding Land Use: The Yamhill River is to the south.      There are four small lots
          along the highway west of [ot 300, each developed with a single family dwelling.        To
          the north is a larger agricultural parcel.

          Soils: The small size of the parcel and the small scale of soils maps makes it difficult to
          classify the soils. However, the parcel appears to be made up of Stoney Land (SL) on
          the terrace adjacent to the highway and Chehalem (CeC) soil on the sloping river bank.

          The City’s Ordinance 1998-9, amending the comprehensive plan map to expand the
          UGB and establish the “Residential” designation on the City’s Comprehensive Plan, and
          taking an exception to Statewide Goal 3, contains City Council Findings in support of
          the application.   The Board agrees with those findings and hereby adopts the city’s
          findings and incorporates them herein by this reference.

          Urban Area Growth Management Agreement Provisions
    is

          Section VII of the Urban Area Growth Management Agreement states that amendments
          of the UGB shall be treated as a map amendment to both the city and county
          Comprehensive Plans. The county does not have any specific approval criteria for
          Comprehensive Plan map amendments.

          The Management Agreement contains a list of seven factors which must be considered
          for a UGB amendment. The seven factors are identical to the factors which must be
          considered under Statewide Planning Goal 14, Urbanization, for changing a UGB.            The
          Board concurs with the findings in the City application addressing these factors.

             al 3 Exception Requirement:

          The parcel is zoned EF-80, so is subject to protection under Goal 3. The policy of
          Goal 3 is to preserve and maintain agricultural lands. In order to take an exception to
          this Goal, the county and city must determine that the land is either physically
          developed or irrevocably committed to non-agricultural uses, or that there are reasons
          which justify the land should be used for purposes other than agriculture. In this case,
          an exception can be justified because the parcel is both physically developed and
          irrevocably committed so that agricultural use of the lot is impracticable.

          Half of the parcel is a steep riverbank, which is unsuitable for farming.     The remainder
          of the parcel is less than 100 feet wide, and contains a trunk sewer line and three
          manholes.    The parcel is also adjacent to a highly traveled road (West Valley

                                                                                          Ordinance 660
                                                                                             Exhibit “A”
                                                                                                 Page 2
° a)   65   PACE     TAA

               Highway), which serves as a physical barrier between lot 300 and the larger farm
               parcel to the north. These physical developments make lot 300 unavailable for farming.

       3.      OAR 660-04-028 requires the following factors to be addressed to demonstrate that the
               land is irrevocably committed:

               (a)     The characteristics of the exception area;

               (b)         The characteristics of the adjacent lands;

               (c)     The relationship between the exception area and the lands adjacent to it;

               (a)     Existing adjacent uses;

               (e)     Existing public facilities and services (water and sewer lines, etc.);

               (p)     Parcel size and ownership patterns of the exception area and adjacent lands,

               (g)     Neighborhood and regional characteristics;

               (h)     Natural or man-made features or other impediments separating the exception
                       area from adjacent resource land;

               @       Physical development; and

               @)      Other relevant factors.

       4.      The lot is on a narrow strip of land between West Valley Highway and the Yamhill
               River. To the west are four small residential lots lying between lot 300 and the city
               limits. (Staff suggested to the city that these lots be included in the UGB amendment,
               but apparently two of the property owners were opposed to being included.) The parcel
               to the east is an even narrower strip of land between the road and river. Lands on the
               south side of the river are in both the city and county, and are zoned for residential use.
               As stated previously, the road separates the parcel from the agricultural parcels to the
               north. For these reasons, and the reasons contained in the City’s findings accompanying
               City Ordinance 1998-9, the Board finds that these factors make farm use of the lot
               impracticable, and that an exception to Statewide Goal 3 is justified.

                                                                                                Ordinance 660
                                                                                                   Exhibit “A”
                                                                                                       Page 3
uy BB we TAB
     CONCLUSIONS:

     1.     The application is to add 1.38 acres to the Urban Growth Boundary of the city of
            Sheridan, and to change the Comprehensive Plan map to the city Residential
            designation.

     2.     An exception to Goals 3 is justified because the lots are both physically developed and
            irrevocably comnmitted so that agricultural use is not practicable.

     3,     The findings in the city application as supplemented by these findings justify how the
            request complies with the seven factors for a UGB amendment found in the Urban Area
            Growth Management Agreement.

     RECOMMENDATION:

     Based on the findings in the City application and these supplemental findings, the Board hereby
     approves the request by the City of Sheridan for an Urban Growth Boundary amendment to
     add Tax Lot 5635-300 to the UGB, including taking an exception to Statewide Planning Goal
     3, be approved.

     F:\admin\pinkstj\lu\paz498ff.
                                wpd

                                                                                        Ordinance 660
                                                                                           Exhibit “A”
                                                                                               Page 4
EH   85   “ACE   746

                       EXHIBIT "B" FOR ORDINANCE No. 660

            EXPANSION OF THE CITY OF SHERIDAN URBAN GROWTH BOUNDARY,
                 and COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP AMENDMENT FROM THE
             COUNTY AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING DESIGNATION
                         TO THE CITY RESIDENTIAL DESIGNATION

                                            AREA SUBJECT TO AMENDMENT:
                                            Tax Lots 5635-300

                        Prepared by Yamhill County Department of Planning and Development

                                                                                      ORDINANCE     660
                                                                                      Exhibit "B"