Zoning Ordinance
Section 1007.00 - Off-Street Parking & Loading
[Last amended 7/9/98, Ordinance 648]

1007.01  Purpose and Scope
The off-street parking and loading requirements of this section shall apply to those uses
specifically listed in this section. A dwelling which is not a duplex or multi-family
dwelling shall not be subject to the requirements of this section; however, a minimum
off-street parking area sufficient to accommodate two (2) cars shall be provided for each
such dwelling. The requirements for any use not specifically listed in this Section but
which may require off-street parking and loading facilities shall be determined by the
Director based upon the requirements for comparable uses listed herein. At the time of
construction of a new building or structure, or at the time of enlargement or change in use
of an existing building or structure within any zoning district, off-street parking spaces
shall be provided as specified herein, unless greater requirements are otherwise
established. Where square feet are specified, the area measured shall be the gross floor
area of the building or structure primary to the functioning of the particular use of the
parcel, but shall exclude space devoted to off-street parking or loading.
1007.02  Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations.
A plan drawn to scale indicating how the following off-street parking general provisions
and design requirements are to be fulfilled shall accompany an application for a building
permit:
A.  General Provisions
1.  The provision and maintenance of off-street parking and loading space is a
continuing obligation of the property owner. No building permit shall be
issued until plans are presented that show property that is and will remain
available for exclusive use as off-street parking and loading space. The
subsequent use of property for which the building permit is issued shall be
conditional upon the unqualified continuance and availability of the
amount of parking and loading space required by this ordinance. Should
the owner or occupant of any parcel, building or structure change the use
to which said parcel, building or structure is put, thereby increasing off-
street parking and loading requirements, it shall be unlawful and in
violation of this ordinance to begin or maintain such altered use until such
time as the increased off-street parking and loading requirements are
complied with.
2.  In the event several uses occupy a single parcel, building or structure, the
total requirements for off-street parking shall be the sum of the
requirements of the several uses computed separately.
3.  Owners of two (2) or more uses, parcels, buildings or structures, may
agree to utilize jointly the same parking and loading spaces when the
hours of operation do not overlap, provided that satisfactory legal
evidence is presented to the Director in the form of deeds, leases, or
contracts to establish joint use.
4.  Off-street parking spaces for dwellings shall be located on the same parcel
with the dwelling. All other required parking spaces shall be located not
further than two hundred (200) feet from the use, parcel, building or
structure they are required to serve, measured in a straight line from such
use, parcel, building or structure.
5.  Off-street parking spaces for dwellings shall not be located in a required
front yard or in a required side yard on the street sides of a corner parcel.

6.  Required parking spaces shall be available for the parking of operable
passenger automobiles of residents, customers, patrons, and employees
only, and shall not be used for storage of vehicles or materials or for the
parking of trucks used in conducting the business or use.
B.  Design requirements for parking lots and loading areas shall be as follows:
1.  Areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall have durable
and dustless surfaces maintained adequately for all-weather use and
drained as to avoid flow of water across sidewalks or onto adjacent private
property;
2.  Except for parking to serve residential uses, parking and loading areas
adjacent to residential zoning districts or adjacent to residential uses shall
be designed to minimize disturbance of residents;
3.  Artificial lighting which may be provided shall be deflected so as not to
shine or create glare in any residential zoning district or on any adjacent
dwelling;
4.  Access aisles shall be of sufficient width for all vehicular turning and
maneuvering;
5.  Groups of more than four (4) parking spaces shall be located and served
by a driveway so that their use will require no backing movements or
other maneuvering within a road right-of-way other than an alley;
6.  Service drives to off-street parking areas shall be designated and
constructed to facilitate the flow of traffic, provide maximum safety of
traffic access and egress and the maximum safety of pedestrians and
vehicular traffic on the parcel; and
7.  Service drives shall have a minimum clear-vision area formed by the
intersection of the driveway centerline, the road right-of-way line, and a
straight line joining said lines through points twenty (20) feet from their
intersection.
C.  Off-street Parking Space Standards  [Amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]
USE  STANDARD
Duplex or multi-family
dwelling Two (2) spaces per dwelling unit
Residential home or facility
One (1) space per bedroom, plus one (1)
space for each employee on maximum
working shift
Retail commercial use One (1) space per 300 square feet of floor
area
Service commercial use One (1) space per 400 square feet of floor
area
Eating or drinking
establishment, including
wine tasting rooms
One (1) space per one-hundred (100) square
feet of floor area, plus one (1) space for each
employee on maximum working shift
Clinic One (1) space per 200 square feet of floor
area
Motels, resorts, bed and
breakfast inns and similar
rental uses
One (1) space per unit plus one (1)space for
each employee on maximum working shift
Manufacturing or industrial
use, including wineries
One (1) space for each employee on
maximum working shift
Wholesale storage and
related use
One (1) space per 2,000 square feet of floor
or storage area
Churches and similar
places of assembly
One (1) space per four (4) seats or eight (8)
feet of bench length

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page