nuk Od eer 2176

          IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                             FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL                           i
                                                                                Ua

               SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Amending Ordinance 631

                                                   ee
to Change the Terms and Conditions

                                                   eee
of the Limited Use Overlay Zone which
Accompanied the Amendments to the

                                                   ee
Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan                          ORDINANCE 638
and the Official Zoning Map Designations

                                                   ee
ona 10-Acre Parcel Known as Tax Lot
3228-1800; Applicant Marvin Schneider;

                                                   Ne
Docket PAZ-02-96.
                                                   Ne

       THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board)
sat for the transaction of county business in special session on March 19, 1998, Commissioners
Ted Lopuszynski, Robert Johnstone, and Thomas E.E. Bunn being present.

       WHEREAS,      on June 19, 1997, the Board enacted Ordinance No. 631, including findings,
approving the application by Marvin Schneider ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-02-96, to
change the Comprehensive Plan (1974) Map from "VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential) to
"I" (Industrial) and the Official Zoning Map from "VLDR 2.5" (Very Low Density Residen-
tial/2.5 acre minimum lot size) to "HI" (Heavy Industrial) and a Limited Use Overly zone limiting
the use of the property to waste reduction and fuel processing, on a 10 acre parcel known as Tax
Lot 3228-1800; and

       WHEREAS,      the parcel is within the Urban Growth Boundary of Newberg, and therefore
the matter was referred to the City of Newberg, and applicant reached an agreement with the City
of Newberg to change the terms and conditions of the Limited Use Overlay which changes were
adopted by the Newberg City Council as set forth in Newberg City Council Resolution No. 97-
2074, and as more particularly described hereinbelow; and

       WHEREAS, on October 30, 1997, the Board held a duly noticed public hearing to consider
modifying Ordinance 631 to include the terms and conditions contained in Newberg City Council
Resolution No. 97-2074, and following the close of the hearing, voted 2-1 (Commissioner Bunn
voting no) to amend Ordinance 631 to incorporate the new terms and conditions as more
specifically set forth hereinbelow and directed staff to prepare an ordinance, with supplemental
findings, attached hereto as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by this reference;

                                                                                ORDINANCE 638
                                                                                           Page 1
                                                                            B.0. GRAPE
                                                                              run OF acc Qi 7
           WHEREAS, adoption of this ordinance and supplemental findings is in the best interests
of the citizens of Yamhill County;       NOW   THEREFORE,

           THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

           Section 1.   Section 2 of Ordinance 631 is deleted and the following is inserted in lieu
thereof:

           "Section 2. The Official Zoning Map, as amended, is hereby amended as specified in the
           attached Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning designation of "HI" (Heavy Industrial), with a
           Limited Use Overlay which restricts the uses and requires a Newberg Site Design Review
           of any proposed development as follows:

                  (A) The Limited Use Overly shall only permit those uses specifically permitted in
                  Newberg Development Code section 10.40.394 M-3 (Heavy Industrial). No other
                  uses permitted within the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance or Newberg
                  Development Code shall be permitted

                  (B)   The (RDF) Refuse Derived Fuel plan, similar use or any use that is accessory
                  or incidental to such use is specifically not permitted.

                  (C)   No city sewer or water facilities shall be authorized for any use permitted
                  outside the City Limit boundary.

                  (D) One septic system may be authorized for the entire property which is the
                  subject to this application. The septic system shall not exceed a capacity equal to
                  three dwelling units or 15 people. No alternative forms of sewerage disposal shall
                  be permitted.

                  (E)   No land divisions are permitted.

                  (F) Any application for development shall be referred to and review by the City
                  of Newberg through the City Site Design Review process (Section 10.28 NDC),
                  and must comply with all City of Newberg Development standards.

                  The City of Newberg may impose any conditions deemed appropriate as part of the
                  Site Design Review.    Yamhill County shall attach and enforce any and all
                  conditions imposed by the City of Newberg on any development permit requested
                  within the Limit Use Overlay zone.

                  (G) As a condition to the plan amendment       and zone change, the owners   of the
                  subject property shall sign a consent to annexation on forms supplied by the City
                  of Newberg.

                                                                                    ORDINANCE 638
                                                                                               Page 2
                                                                                         rik OS mer 217
                   (H)   As a condition to the plan amendment and zone change, the applicants shall
                  initiate a new annexation request to the City of Newberg.

        Section 2.     The findings attached to Exhibit "A" part of Ordinance No. 631 are hereby
deleted and the attached Findings For Approval attached hereto as Exhibit "A" to this Ordinance
No. 638 and incorporated herein by reference are hereby adopted in lieu thereof and in support
of this amendment to Ordinance 631.

         Section 3.        In all other respects Ordinance No. 631 shall remain in full force and effect.

         Section 4.        Effective Date.    The first reading of the ordinance was March 5, 1998. The
second reading was March 19, 1998. In accordance with ORS 203.045(9),                     1997 replacement part,
this ordinance shall become effective June 18, 1998.

Record of Vote:            Ayes: Commissioners Lopuszynski and Johnstone
                           Nay:   Commissioner Bunn.

         DONE      at McMinnville,   Oregon this 19th day of March,            1998.

ATTEST                                       YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                             Chaitman                   TED KQPUSZYNSKI

                                                Lhot Opuobine
                                             Commissioner           (] ROBERT JOHNSTONE

                                               an
yaa                                              / Neti             £.€.     bur
 OHN C. PINKSTAE                             Commissioner               THOMAS         E.E.BUNN
Assistant County Counsel

                                                          Agoapled by Yarn Coun
H; \ADMIN\PINKSTI\LU\paz2-69, 002
                                                          Doste af Comntissionars te
                                                    PLD        FE noone Board Order
                                                          W2ELTE

                                                                                               ORDINANCE 638
                                                                                                          Page 3
                                                                      fie OS nce21'79
                                         EXHIBIT   "A"

                                    ORDINANCE 638

                                  Findings for Approval

DATE OF NEWBERG URBAN AREA
MANAGEMENT COMMISSION
RECOMMENDATION:                                               March 20,1997

DATE OF ADOPTION
OF IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCE 631:                                June 2, 1997

DATE OF ADOPTION OF
ORDINANCE 638, AMENDING
ORDINANCE 631:                                                March 5, 1998

DOCKET:                     PAZ-02-96

REQUEST:                    Plan amendment from VLDR Very Low Density Residential to I
                            Industrial and a zone change from VLDR-2.5 Very Low Density
                            Residential to HI Heavy Industrial.

PLAN DESIGNATION:           |VLDR Very Low Density Residential.

APPLICANT:                  Marvin Schneider.

TAX LOT:                    3228-1800.

LOCATION:                   2808 Wynooski Road, Newberg.

CRITERIA:                   Sections 502, 801, and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                            Ordinance; Statewide Planning Goals.   The application will be
                            processed using the Newberg Urban Area Management Agreement.

FINDINGS:

A.   Background Facts

1.   Lot Size:    Approximately 10 acres.

2.   Access:     Wynooski Road.

                                                                     Exhibit "A" - Page 1
                                                                           Ordinance 638
                                                                              FILA   03   ce   280

3.      On-Site Land Use: The northern half of the parcel contains a level area. The southern end
of the property slopes down to a creek. This portion contains mature trees and riparian vegetation.
Approximately six of the ten acres is suitable for development.

4.      Surrounding Land Use and Zoning: Property to the north is inside the city limits and zoned.
M2. Property to the south is zoned EF-40 Exclusive Farm Use. Property to the east contains the
Newberg Transfer Station and is zoned PWS Public Works Safety. One adjacent parcel to the
west and properties to the southwest are zoned VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential. These
properties contains rural residential and small farm/forestry uses. The majority of the adjacent
land to the west is zoned HI Heavy Industrial. The City’s Waste Water Transfer Plant and Smurfit
pulp and paper mill are in the vicinity of this parcel.

3.     Urban Reserve Area: Property to the east and west of the subject parcel is designated as
an Urban Reserve Area.

6.     Water and Sewage Disposal: City representative’s have stated that sewer and water will
not be available if the use is developed in the county.

7.     Fire Protection:    Newberg Rural Fire District.

8.     Taxes:    The property is not receiving a farm or forestry deferral.

9.      Soils:   Sheet 22 of the Soil Survey shows that the northern 1/3 of the property contains
Woodburn (WuB) and Aloha (Ah) soils. These are rated as Agricultural Class II. The southern
2/3 of the property contains Terrace Escarpments (Class VI) and Wapato (We - Class III).

10.    Previous Actions:      In 1993 there was a request to have this property included in the
Newberg Urban Growth Boundary (UGB).          The application was assigned county Docket PA-2-93
and city Docket UGB-2-93. On September 14, 1993 the Newberg Urban Area Management
Commission (NUAMC) reviewed the request and unanimously recommended approval. The
recommendation was adopted by each jurisdiction. Subsequently there was an application made
for annexation and a zone change to a city designation of M-3 Heavy Industrial. This request was
approved by the Newberg City Council on December 4, 1995.

        Part of the approval required completion of a Development Agreement between the city
and the applicant in accordance with the requirements of the previously approved Urban Growth
Boundary Amendment. An agreement was drawn up and was sent to the City Council. The
Council needed five affirmative votes to pass the Development Agreement. The agreement failed
to receive the five affirmative votes so the annexation could not be finalized.

11.     Other Factors:     FIRM map 410249 0187 shows the southern half of the property is within
the 100-year floodplain.

                                                                              Exhibit "A" - Page 2
                                                                                    Ordinance 638
                                                                                    FILH        03         rcp       DLO

12.    Exceptions: The subject parcel and area to the north, south, east and west were all granted
a "committed" exception from the statewide planning goals protecting farm and forestry uses
(goals 3 and 4). The area was granted an exception and plan designated VLDR Very Low Density
Residential by Exceptions Statement           I.    This   document    was     adopted     by        the    Board      of
Commissioners May 3, 1979.

B.     Transportation Planning Rule.

1.      OAR 660, Division 12, is the "Transportation Planning Rule."              Certain land-use actions
are subject to provisions of the rule.      OAR 660-12-060 states:

        (1)   | Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and
        land use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure
        that allowed land uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and
        level of service of the facility.   This shall be accomplished by either:

                (a)     Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with planned function,
                        capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;

                (b)     Amending      the   TSP    to provide   transportation facilities
                         adequate to support the proposed land uses consistent with
                         the requirements of this division, or,

                (c)     Altering land use designations, densities, or design
                        requirements to reduce demand for automobile travel and
                        meet travel needs through other modes.

        (2)     A plan or land use            regulation   amendment     significantly          affects          a
        transportation facility if it:

                 (a)    Changes the functional classification          of an    existing        or
                        planned transportation facility,

                 (o)     Changes standards implementing a functional classification
                         system,

                 (¢)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in
                         levels of travel or access which are inconsistent with the
                         functional classification of a transportation facility; or

                 (d)     Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the
                         minimum acceptable level identified in the TSP.

                                                                                     Exhibit "A" - Page 3
                                                                                           Ordinance 638
                                                                             rua OS nec 2182
       (3)     Determinations under subsection (1) and (2) of this section shall be
       coordinated with affected transportation facility and service providers and other
       affected local or state governments.

2.     The applicant has provided a study prepared by Kittelson and Associates, dated February,
1995 and updated traffic impact analysis dated December 21, 1995 to address concerns regarding
potential traffic impacts to Highway 219 (Villa Road)/Highway 99W, Springbrook Street/Highway
99W and Highway 219/Wilsonville Road intersections and Wynooski Road ("Kittelson traffic
impact analysis"). The study analyzed the impact a refuse derived fuel facility would have on the
adjacent roads. While the fuel facility was not approved for this site, this type of facility, with
frequent deliveries, is indicative of traffic expected in the Heavy Industrial zone. The study
examines the level of service on nearby roads and concludes that the facility will not significantly
impact the level-of-service on the road system.

        The Kittelson traffic impact analysis was sent to the Oregon Department of Transportation
and the Yamhill County Public Works Department for referral. The Kittelson traffic impact
analysis was reviewed by the Director of Yamhill County Public Works Department, Bill Gille,
who testified that he concurs with the analysis. Therefore, the Board adopts and incorporates
herein the Kettelson traffic impact analysis as part of these findings. For the reasons contained
in the Kittelson traffic impact analysis, the Board finds that the proposed amendment to the
comprehensive plan and zoning district will not "significantly affect any transportation facility”
as defined in OAR 660-12-060.

C.     Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis.

1.     This request is for a zone change from VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential to HI
Heavy Industrial and a Plan amendment from VLDR to I Industrial for 10 acres.

2.   The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and criteria in
YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

        (a)    That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
               other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

       (b)     That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed
               by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the
               citizenry or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which
               such uses will satisfy, and the availability and location of other lands so
               zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

        (c)    That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
               uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which
               may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and

                                                                             Exhibit "A" - Page 4
                                                                                   Ordinance 638
                                                                                FILA   b3    PACE 2183

               the availability of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated
               uses in the proposed district.

       (a)     That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are
               either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to
               location, size, or other factors.

       (e)     That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative
               Rules for exceptions, if applicable.

       The findings regarding these criteria are provided in subsections C.3 through C.7 below.

3,      The Board finds that the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, as required by YCZO 1208.02 (a). There
are several references in the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan to industrial uses. Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan ("YCCP") Section I.H. Industrial Development notes in the summary
that "The provision of adequate urban services is a major concern in an industry’s location and
operation.” Goal Statement 1 of this section directs the county:

       To concentrate industries of similar types, service needs, and performance
       characteristics within designated areas of each of the existing urban centers, to
       encourage adequate land for new industrial development within urban growth
       boundaries; to encourage the relocation of existing industries from undesirable
       locations in order to eliminate land use conflicts; to attract new industries in
       accordance with the need to achieve a more balanced local property tax and
       employment base, while maintaining a high standard of environmental quality; and
       to protect the stability and functional aspect of industrial areas by protecting them
       from incompatible uses.

       Policy statement b. of this goal states:

       To the greatest extent possible, industrial areas will be located within urban growth
       boundaries. Those industrial areas located outside urban growth boundaries will
       be compatible with the industrial development goal and will be located where they
       can be adequately served by necessary major utility lines, including electric power
       substations and transmission lines, trunk sewer lines, trunk water lines, and where
       appropriate, trunk gas lines.

         The Goals and Policies cited above direct the county to encourage the clustering of
industrial development in areas appropriate to handle the use. In accomplishing these goals, the
county must also be sensitive to the concerns of Newberg. YCCP Section V Goal Statement 2
directs the county to:

                                                                                Exhibit "A" - Page 5
                                                                                      Ordinance 638
                                                                                   FILK   03   PACE 2184

        To preserve and enhance the charm and amenity values of the county, while
        accommodating change, through ensuring harmony between urban development
        and the natural environment, at the same time cultivating more attractive urban
        environments in which to live, work and play.

        To assure that the development satisfies this Goal, a Site Design Review and Similar Use
approval will be required.

        The Board finds that the proposed zone change is also consistent with the following
additional YCCP provisions:

         "h.  Established industrial areas may be extended and new industrial areas
        designated by plan amendment where development trends warrant such extention
        or designation ...". (YCCP I. H. 1. h)

        The Board finds that zoning and industrial uses on Wynooski Road has established a trend
that this area is appropriate for heavy industrial use.   There is an established trend on Wynooski
to locate industrial uses (Smurfit, Newberg Garbage and Transfer Services, and Newberg's waste
water treatment facility)

4.     The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed
by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy
of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability and
location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone, as required
by YCZO 1208.02(b).

        The City of Newberg submitted information that indicated a long term need for industrial
land within the city limits. Although this property is not within their city limits, the City has taken
this property into its Urban Growth Boundary. Presently the property is zoned in the county as
Very Low Density Residential. The applicant stated that if this parcel were used pursuant to the
existing Comprehensive Plan we would see single family residences and families living: (1) next
door to a garbage collection and transfer site, (2) across the street from heavy industrial property,
(3) down the street from Smurfit Pulp and Paper Mill, and (4) near Newberg's waste water
transfer plant.

        The Board is persuaded by the applicant's statement of need. The Board also finds that a
need exists for the proposed zone change given the availability and location of other lands so zoned.
and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone. Although there are other sites within the
Newberg city limits zoned. industrial, none of those properties are as suitable as this property
because of the proximity of this property to other heavy industrial uses in the area, including the
property inside the city limits to the north which is zoned M2, the city waste water treatment plant
adjacent to the site within 0.3 mile, Smurfit paper plant within 0.4 mile, within 1600 feet of the
Smurfit sewer lagoons, the vehicular access from Wynooski Road which was improved for
industrial traffic by the County in 1989/90, and the PWS zoned Newberg Transfer Station property

                                                                               Exhibit "A" - Page 6
                                                                                     Ordinance 638
                                                                                 rua O3 escc2L65
to the east. The Smurfit properties are planned and zoned for heavy industrial use to the west are
planned and zoned industrial property

5.      The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land
uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred
in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and services
likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district, as required by YCZO
1208 .02(c).

        The applicant stated:

        “As mentioned above, the surrounding land use designation is all industrial, heavy
        industrial is next door and down the street. The road has been improved to
        accommodate industrial traffic. Because all the surrounding land use designation
        is industrial, this facility fits into the current pattern of development ...”.

        As described in Finding A.4 above, the surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of
development in the surrounding area contains industrial or industrial types of uses.      The city of
Newberg has expressed approval of the location of this facility.         On December 4, 1995 the
Newberg City Council adopted Ordinance 95-2423.          Exhibit "A" to Ordinance 95-242 contains
reference to a comprehensive plan policy which states:

        “Heavy industrial uses should be located in the area near Smurfit Newsprint, an
        existing pulp and paper mill. Other designated areas should be developed to light
        industrial or industrial park type areas.”

        The staff response to this plan policy stated:

        “By zoning the proposed property M-3 (Heavy Industrial) ... will further this very
        specific goal. The proposed area is situated within 4/10 of a mile from Smurfit,
        within 3/10 of a mile from the Waste Water Treatment Plant, within 1600 feet of
        the Smurfit sewer lagoons and next door to the Newberg Transfer Station. ... There
        is no better location for M-3 (Heavy Industrial) zoning that the proposed site.”

        The request for a zone change to a County designation of HI Heavy Industrial is very
similar to Newberg’s M-3 Heavy Industrial designation. The City of Newberg did have some
concerns about design standards of the initially proposed use, rather than the location of the use.
The proposed use has been withdrawn so any use must satisfy the restrictions of the limited use
overlay. Additionally, the design and conditions of approval for the site will be evaluated at the
time an application is made for a Site Design Review.

        The Board finds that utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the
proposed district are available.   The road system is adequate to handle Heavy Industrial traffic.

                                                                               Exhibit "A" - Page 7
                                                                                     Ordinance 638
                                                                                         FILK    63     nce 2.8

Water will be an on-site well and on-site sewage disposal system will be required. Electricity can
be extended to the property. Fire protection will be furnished by the Newberg Rural Fire District.

6.      The Board finds that other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are
either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other
factors, as required by YCZO 1208.02 (d). As discussed in finding C.4 above, location of this
property is better suited for the proposed use than other industrial property in the county.

7.      The Board finds that the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative
Rules for exceptions, if applicable. As discussed in Finding A.12 above, this property was part
of Exception Statement I which was adopted by Yamhill County in 1979, in which a "committed"
exception was taken.

       Although it may be argued that a new exception is required if there is a change in use, the
Board finds that a new exception is not required on the subject property because the property was
the subject of a "committed exception" to Goals 3 and 4, and the committed exception was taken
before the 3/20/86 effective date of the administrative rule, current OAR 660-04-018(2).                        OAR
660-04-018(4) states that the rule applies only to plan and zoning designations and exceptions
adopted following the effective date of the rule.! Additionally, even if an exception were required,
an exception was taken in 1993 when the property was taken into Newberg’s Urban Growth
Boundary. Therefore the request is consistent with YCZO 1208.02(e).

D.      Limited Use Overlay District.

1.      An exception was taken at the time the UGB amendment was completed.                        However, the
Department of Land Conservation and Development requested that the City include a plan policy
that indicates the use of this property is limited to the described “waste reduction and fuel
processing.”     This limitation does not appear to have been placed on the property by the City.

2.      Section 904.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance allows the placement of a limited
use overlay to be placed on plan amendments.             Section 904.03 states:

        When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
        underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the ordinance
        adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.

        * See Murray v. Marion County,     23 Or LUBA 268, note 10 (1992).     Former OAR 660-04-018 was
interpreted to require a new exception only where the original exception required consideration of impacts on
adjacent uses, and since a "committed exception" standards do not require assessment of impacts whereas a
“reasons” exception does include a requirement that the proposed uses will be compatible. See Cook v. Yamhill
County, 14 Or LUBA 78 (1985) (holding that a change in use of property for which a "committed" exception is
taken did not require a new exception under former OAR 660-04-018 because the standards for a "committed"
exception consider impractibility of compliance, rather than compatibility and impacts).

                                                                                         Exhibit "A" - Page 8
                                                                                                Ordinance 638
                                                                              rin OS rce2187
3.      On June 19, 1997, the Board enacted Ordinance No. 631, including findings, approving
the application by Marvin Schneider ("applicant"), Planning Docket PAZ-02-96, to change the
Comprehensive Plan (1974) Map from "VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential) to "I" (Industrial)
and the Official Zoning Map from "VLDR 2.5" (Very Low Density Residential/2.5 acre minimum
lot size) to "HI" (Heavy Industrial) and a Limited Use Overly zone limiting the use of the property
to waste reduction and fuel processing. Following adoption by the County, the Newberg City
Council declined to approve the requested plan amendment and zone change, and the City advised
the County that it opposed the use of the property for a waste reduction and fuel processing.   The
County met with the applicant and the City.

       At the request of the City, the applicant changed the request from a Refuse Derived Fuel
facility to simply having the property rezoned to a Heavy Industrial zone designation. The City
demanded placement of conditions.on the limited use overlay to prevent the use of the property
for a Refuse Derived Fuel facility. Because the applicant did not object to these limitations the
Board finds that based on the conditions suggested by the City, the subject property should be
subject to a Limited Use Overlay which restricts the uses and requires     a Newberg Site Design
Review of any proposed development as follows:

       (A)     The Limited Use Overly shall only permit those uses specifically permitted in
Newberg Development Code section 10.40.394 M-3 (Heavy Industrial). No other uses permitted
within the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance or Newberg Development Code shall be permitted

       (B)     The (RDF)    Refuse Derived Fuel plan, similar use or any use that is accessory or
incidental to such use is specifically not permitted.

       (C)     No city sewer or water facilities shall be authorized for any use permitted outside
the City Limit boundary.

         (D)     One septic system may be authorized for the entire property which is the subject
to this application. The septic system shall not exceed a capacity equal to three dwelling units or
15 people. No alternative forms of sewerage disposal shall be permitted.

       (E)     No land divisions are permitted.

       (F)     Any application for development shall be referred to and reviewed by the City of
Newberg through the City Site Design Review process (Section 10.28 NDC), and must comply
with all City of Newberg Development standards.

               The City of Newberg may impose any conditions deemed appropriate as part of the
Site Design Review.   Yamhill County shall attach and enforce any and all conditions imposed by
the City of Newberg on any development permit requested within the Limit Use Overlay zone.

       (G)     As acondition to the plan amendment and zone change, the owners of the subject
property shall sign a consent to annexation on forms supplied by the City of Newberg.

                                                                            Exhibit "A" - Page 9
                                                                                  Ordinance 638
                                                                             rik Od c2188
        (H)     ‘As accondition to the plan amendment and zone change, the applicants shall initiate
a new annexation request to the City of Newberg.

        Any other use allowed by the HI zone will require amendment to the overlay zone and
taking of an exception pursuant to OAR 660-04.

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

1.      The request is for a plan amendment from VLDR Very Low Density Residential to I
Industrial and a zone change from VLDR-2.5          Very Low    Density Residential to HI Heavy
Industrial.

2.      The request complies with Section 1208.02(a) of the YCZO because the proposal appears
to be consistent with the goals and policies of the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan concerning
rural residential zoning.

3.     The request complies with Section 1208.02(b) of the YCZO because there is an existing
demonstratable need for heavy industrial zoning in the Newberg Area.

4,      The request complies with Section 1208.02(c) of the YCZO because the proposal would
be appropriate, considering surrounding zoning.

5.      The request complies with Section 1208.02(d) because the NUAMC previously determined
in a related UGB amendment that there was a demonstrated lack of other nearby locations that
could accommodate Heavy Industrial use.

6.      The request complies with Section 1208.02(e) of the YCZO because a new exception is not
required to be taken for a committed exception was taken in 1979, and even if a new exception
were required, an exception for the proposed use was taken in 1993 which satisfied the
requirements of OAR 660-04 for taking an exception to Statewide Planning Goals 3 and 4.

DECISION:

        Based on the above findings, analysis and conclusions, the Board hereby approves the
request by Marvin Schneider, Planning Docket PAZ-02-96, to change the Comprehensive Plan
(1974) Map from "VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential) to "I" (industrial) and the Official
Zoning Map from"VLDR 2.5" (Very Low Density Residential / 2.5 acre minimum lot size) to
"HI" (Heavy Industrial) on    Tax lot 3228-1800, subject to the following:

1,      In addition to the zoning designation of "HI" (Heavy Industrial), the subject property shall
be subject to a Limited Use Overlay which restricts the uses and requires a Newberg Site Design
Review of any proposed development as follows:

                                                                             Exhibit "A" - Page 10
                                                                                    Ordinance 638
                                                                                FILK   bd   nner 2189

       (A) | The Limited Use Overly shall only permit those uses specifically permitted in
Newberg Development Code section 10.40.394 M-3 (Heavy Industrial). No other uses permitted
within the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance or Newberg Development Code shall be permitted

        (B)     The (RDF) Refuse Derived Fuel plan, similar use or any use that is accessory or
incidental to such use is specifically not permitted.

        (C)      No city sewer or water facilities shall be authorized for any use permitted outside
the city limit boundary.

        (D)      One septic system may be authorized for the entire property which is the subject
to this application.    The septic system shall not exceed a capacity equal to three dwelling units or
15 people.    No alternative forms of sewerage disposal shall be permitted.

        (£)      No land divisions are permitted.

        ()       Any application for development shall be referred to and review by the City of
Newberg through the City Site Design Review process (Section 10.28 NDC), and must comply
with all City of Newberg Development standards.

               The City of Newberg may impose any conditions deemed appropriate as part of the
Site Design Review. Yamhill County shall attach and enforce any and all conditions imposed by
the City of Newberg on any development permit requested within the Limit Use Overlay zone.

        (G)      As a condition to the plan amendment and zone change, the owners of the subject
property shall sign a consent to annexation on forms supplied by the City of Newberg.

        (2)      ‘Asa   condition to the plan amendment and zone change, the applicants shall initiate
a new annexation request to the City of Newberg.

F:\ADMIN\PINKSTI\LU\PAZ2-96.001

                                                                              Exhibit "A" - Page 11
                                                                                     Ordinance 638