BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approving Amendments to the Yamhill County               )
Comprehensive Plan arid Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance                     )   Ordinance 838
to Accommodate The Newberg-Dundee Transportation                          )
Improvement Project, Docket G-01-09, and Declaring an Emergency           )

         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the
Board) sat for the transaction of county business on June 17, 2009, Commissioners Leslie Lewis,
Kathy George’and Mary P. Stern being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that, in co-operation with the Oregon Department
of Transportation and local municipalities, Yamhill County needs to revise its Comprehensive
Plan and Zoning Ordinance with several amendments to accommodate the proposed Newberg-
Dundee Bypass project, and

           IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the Planning Commission heard this matter at
 a duly noticed public hearing on May 7, 2009 and voted 7-0 to recommend approval, and the
-Board held a duly noticed legislative public hearing on June 3, 2009, and, after hearing from
 supporters (no opponenets being present) voted unanimously to approve the application, NOW,
 THEREFORE,

         IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in the Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance, attached as
Exhibits "A" and “B”, and by this reference incorporated herein. This ordinance, being necessary
for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having
been declared to exist, is effective upon passage.

          DONE this 17" day of June, 2009, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                  YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
REBEKAH STERN D               i                 el      (Vv (ous
County Clerk               IEE:
                             iy
                                Fie                          LESLIE LEWIS
                                         \ a
                                            2    eh     Meas
Denuty’Amer sitt       4       2           Cae ivr          ho,

APPROVED AS TO FOR Wf oroseeeee®                      MU
    OW         7                   ve"   Commissioner      \ MARY P, STERN
                   a

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                                        B.0-04-288
Exhibit “A” — Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Amendments

The following amendments to the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (goals & policies) are
hereby adopted for the Newberg-Dundee Bypass and interchange areas, The Summary under
Section III.A (Transportation of the Comprehensive Plan) is hereby revised to read as follows:

SUMMARY

Yamhill County and ODOT have discussed ways to relieve traffic congestion on Oregon 99W
through Newberg and Dundee for many years.

A Southern Bypass is included in Newberg’s acknowledged Transportation System Plan and also
is an element of Dundee’s adopted Transportation System Plan.

ODOT initiated a tiered environmental impact statement to consider transportation alternatives
for the Newberg-Dundee corridor. A Tier 1 Location Draft Environmental Impact Statement
(LDEIS) was published in September 2002. The LDEIS evaluated eight Build Alternatives and
a No Build Alternative.

Following the public comment period arid public hearings on the LDEIS, the Project Oversight
Steering Committee (which includes representatives of ODOT, the Federal Highway
Administration, Yamhill County, and the Cities of Newberg, Dundee, Dayton and McMinnville)
determined that a Bypass was needed to solve the region’s growing traffic congestion problem.

The recommended four-lane Bypass (Modified Alternative 3J) extends for approximately 11
miles from the Rex Hill area east of Newberg to the intersection of Oregon 99W and Oregon 18
(McDougal Corner) near Dayton.

The Bypass will function as a high-speed statewide expressway and freight route as defined in
the Oregon Highway Plan.        The Bypass includes four associated interchanges at Dayton
(directional), East Dundee (full movement), Oregon 219 (full movement) and East Newberg
(directional). The Bypass and interchanges will be fully access controlled and no direct access
will be allowed from private properties. The primary function of the Bypass is to provide for
high-speed, through trips and to relieve congestion on Oregon 99W through the downtown areas
of Newberg and Dundee,

ODOT and Yamhill County completed the local Jand use process for the location of the Bypass
(corridor width of about 300 feet) before the record of decision was issued on the Location Final
Environmental Impact Statement in 2005. The specific Bypass alignment within the wider
location corridor will be determined in the Tier 2 Design Environmental Impact Statement.

Land use actions including goal exceptions were required for the portions of the Bypass located
on rural lands, As part of the goal exception, Yamhill County adopted facility design and land
use measures to minimize accessibility of rural lands from the proposed transportation facility
and support continued rural use of surrounding lands. The new policies specific to the Bypass

                                                                                “B.0.04-288
were adopted concurrent with the goal exception to address the requirements of OAR 660-012-
0070 of the Transportation Planning Rule. In addition, a new Interchange Area Overlay District
was established and applied to implement the new plan policies.

2.     Specific Policies for the Newherg-Dundee Bypass

       The functions of the Newberg-Dundee Bypass are to accommodate and divert longer-
       distance through trips around the Newberg-Dundee urban area and to serve regional trips
       going to and from Newberg or Dundee (i¢., those trips with either an origin or
       destination outside of the Newberg-Dundee urban area). The function of the planned
       intermediate interchanges is to provide access between Newberg or Dundee and other
       regions (¢.g., McMinnville, Portland or the coast).        It is not the function of the
       interchanges to provide for or attract regional commercial or highway commercial
       development in the vicinity of the interchanges.        In general, need for commercial
       development should be accommodated in areas currently planned for commercial
       development within Newberg and Dundee. Plan amendments and zone changes shall be
       consistent with the function of the bypass and interchanges as set forth in this policy.

       Yambill County will apply and maintain an Interchange Overlay District to for
       unincorporated county lands that are within approximately. 4 to % mile of the
       interchange ramps

       Yamhill County will discourage expansion of urban growth boundaries toward the
       interchanges to support continued rural use of lands surrounding the interchanges and to
       protect the planned function and capacity of the Bypass and interchanges to serve
       primarily longer-distance through trips.

d,     Within the Interchange Overlay District, Yamhill County will permit all uses that are
       permitted outright or that may be authorized as conditional uses in the underlying zoning
       district(s).

       Yamhill County will provide notice to ODOT of certain land use and development
       applications within the boundaries of the Interchange Overlay District. ODOT may
       request that an applicant submit a traffic impact study or access plan before a land use
       application is accepted as complete by Yamhill County. Yamhill County zoning maps
       shall clearly indicate on a parcel-specific basis if property is within the planned sight-of-
       way for the Newberg Dundee Bypass or interchanges.

       ODOT may coordinate with property owners/applicants on a voluntary basis to protect
       the planned right-of-way for the bypass and interchange; and to assure that proposed
       access points are located consistent with the anticipated access spacing standards for the
       interchange.

       Yamhill County will consider and may impose additional setback requirements or restrict
       use of the planned right-of-way to low intensity uses such as agriculture, parking or
          storage in the interim period before right-of-way for the Newberg-Dundee Bypass is
          acquired by ODOT,

 h.     The Newberg Dundee Bypass received final environmental approval of the corridor in
 August 2005. The second tier of the environmental process is for approval of the design of
 the facility and is expected to receive final approval in 2010 from the Federal Highway
 Administration. The Oregon Department of Transportation received funding to construct
 Phase 1 of the Newberg Dundee Bypass, which is a 2-lane facility from OR 219 near
 Wynooski Road in Newberg, around the southern portions of Newberg and Dundee, and
 reconnecting with OR 99W south of Dundee beyond Fulquartz Landing Road. This
 approximate 6-mile segment of the Newberg Dundee Bypass can be considered a planned
 facility. For purposes of compliance with the Transportation Planning Rule (OAR 660-012-
 060), other segments of the Bypass and associated interchanges (from Rex Hill to OR 219
 and from Fulquartz Landing Road to Dayton) are not yet considered to be planned
 transportation facilities and cannot be relied upon for providing additional planned capacity
 until the Oregon Transportation Commission approves a financing plan for these segments of
 the Bypass project,

 i,       Yamhill County will coordinate with ODOT and the affected jurisdictions to further
          explore and implement agreed upon elements of the Alternate Mode and Land Use
          Components of the Newberg-Dundee Transportation Improvement Project.

 j.       Yamhill County will coordinate with ODOT and the affected jurisdictions and property
          owners to adopt Interchange Area Management Plans for each of the four interchanges,
          coiisistent with the requirements of the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan and OAR 734-051-
          0200(4). The interchange area management plans will address the following at a
          minimum:    access management standards, road connections and local street circulation,
          compatible land uses and bypass termini protection. The interchange area management
          plans will be designed to protect the function and capacity of the interchanges for at least
          a 20 to 25-year planning period.

 k.       These policies for the Newberg-Dundee Bypass and the provisions of the Interchange
          Overlay District shall be considered interim provisions that may be refined, revised or
          replaced as needed based on the Tier 2 Design EIS and/or the adopted Interchange Area
          Management Plans.

 Ordinance 838 - Exhibit “B® — Amendments to the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance

 The following amendments to the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance (Section 908.00 —
_ Interchange Overlay District) are adopted for the Newberg-Dundee Bypass and interchange
 areas,

 908.01 Purpose

          The purpose of the Interchange Overlay District is to:

                                                                                Ord. 838                 4
              Protect the planned function and capacity of the Newberg-Dundee Bypass
              (Bypass) as an “Expressway” as defined in the 1999 Oregon Highway Plan.
              (OHP) by prohibiting direct private access to the Bypass and controlling access
              and managing land uses in the vicinity of the interchanges. The primary function
              of Expressways is to provide for interurban travel and connections to ports and
              major recreation areas with minimal interruptions. A secondary function is to
              provide for long distance intra-urban travel in metropolitan areas.

              Protect land designated for agriculture and rural development (¢.g., exception
              areas) on the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan from development pressures
              that could result from improved proximity, visibility, accessibility, and faster
              travel times associated with the four interchanges to the Bypass.

              Support continued rural use of lands surrounding the interchanges and protect the
              planned function and capacity of the Bypass and interchanges to serve primarily
              longer-distance through trips by retaining existing zoning within the Interchange
              Overlay District and discouraging expansion of urban growth boundaries (UGBs)
              toward the interchanges.

              Assure coordination between Yamhill County and ODOT on Site Design Review
              and access management within the Interchange Overlay District.

              Provide the opportunity for Yamhill County to recommend additional setbacks for
              voluntary use of the Bypass location corridor te for low intensity uses such as
              agriculture, parking or storage.

       ODOT will prepare interchange area management plans for each of the four interchanges
       in partnership with Yamhill County, the affected cities and property owners. This
       Interchange Overlay District is intended as an interim land use tool that may be refined,
       revised or replaced as Interchange Area Management Plans are adopted for each of the
       four interchanges as required by the OHP and OAR 731-051-0200,

908.02 Area of Application of Interchange Overlay District

       A.     The Interchange Overlay District shall apply to unincorporated lands within
              approximately 4 mile (inside UGBs) to % mile (outside UGBs) of the end of the
              ramps to the following four interchanges to the Bypass:

                      Dayton Interchange
                      East Dundee Interchange
             NS

                      Oregon 219 Interchange
                      East Newberg Interchange

              The Interchange Overlay District shall be combined with at least one (1)
              underlying zoning district and may be combined with any zoning district pursuant
              to this ordinance, All property within the Interchange Overlay District shall be

                                                                          Ord, 838                 5
              subject both fo the provisions of this section and to the underlying zoning district.
              Nothing in this section shall be construed as a waiver or suspension of the
              provisions of any underlying zoning district, or any other applicable overlay
              district.

              The general boundaries of the Interchange Overlay District are shown on Figure
              908-1 and shall be delineated on a parcel-specific basis on the Official Zoning
              Map.

908.03        Interim Protection of Bypass Corridor through Site Design Review

              Yamhill County shall maintain a parcel-specific map that illustrates the Bypass
              corridor (about 300 feet wide) approved in the Record of Decision for the
              Location Final Environmental Impact Statement.

              In the interim period before construction of the Bypass, Yamhill County shat will
              coordinate with affected property owners and ODOT in an effort to avoid
              construction of permanent structures on the segments of the planned Bypass
              under Yamhill County jurisdiction.

              Site Design Review (see Section 1100 of this Ordinance) shall be required for
              development that includes all or a portion of a parcel within the Bypass corridor
              as described in A above. The County may waive the requirement for Site Design
              Review if a review of building plans indicates the proposed development will be
              located outside the Bypass corridor.

              Through the Site Design Review process, ODOT may recommend and Yamhill
              County may propose additional voluntary setbacks before the Bypass is
              constructed.

              The width of the Bypass corridor subject to Site Design Review shall be narrowed
              when the Record of Decision is issued for the Design-level Environmental Impact
              Statement.

908.04 Permitted Uses

         A.   All uses of land and water that are permitted in the underlying zoning district(s)
              are also permitted in the Interchange Overlay District.

              All uses of land and water in the Interchange Overlay District are subject to the
              standards and limitations of the underlying zoning district(s), with the following
              additional limitations:

              1.      All development within the boundaries of the Interchange Overlay District
                      is subject to Site Design Review as outlined in Section 1100.

                                                                             Ord, 838                 6
              2.       Through the Site Design Review process, ODOT may recommend, and
                       Yamhill County may propose, that new development within the
                       Interchange Overlay District maintain additional voluntary setbacks,

              3,       Through the Site Design Review process, ODOT may recommend, and
                       Yamhill County may require, that new development within the
                       Interchange Overlay District locate access points to assure consistency
                       with the anticipated access spacing standards for the interchanges.

908.05 Conditional Uses

         A.   All uses of land and water that are listed as conditional uses in the underlying
              zoning district(s) may also be allowed in the Interchange Overlay District subject
              to the following:

               1.   Yamhill County shall notify ODOT when an application is submitted for a
                    proposed conditional use within the Interchange Overlay District.

              2.    During the 30-day completeness review, ODOT may request that the
                    applicant prepare a traffic impact study or an access plan to provide additional
                    information on how the proposed conditional use may impact the interchange.
                    If additional information is requested in writing by ODOT during the 30-day
                    completeness review, such information shall be required by Yamhill County
                    before the application is accepted as complete.

              The proposed conditional use shall be subject to the conditional use review
              criteria and requirements as outlined in Section 1202 of this Zoning Ordinance.

               In addition to the types of conditions of approval outlined in Section 1202.03 of
               the Zoning Ordinance, ODOT may recommend, and the decision-making body
               may impose conditions or mitigation to protect the function and capacity of the
               interchange; and to assure that proposed access points are located consistent with
              ‘the anticipated access spacing standards for the interchange.

908.06        UGB Amendments within the Interchange Overlay District

         A,   Three of the four interchanges to the Bypass (Dayton, East Dundee and East
              Newberg) are located outside of acknowledged UGBs of the Cities of Dayton,
              Dundee and Newberg, respectively, The Oregon 219 interchange will be located
              inside the Newberg UGB.

              Proposed amendments to UGBs are governed by the criteria in Statewide
              Planning Goal 14 (Urbanization) and acknowledged UGB Management
              Agreements between Yamhill County and the respective cities. A decision to
              expand the UGB must be approved by the Yamhill County Board of
              Commissioners and the respective City Council.

                                                                              Ord. 838                 7
The 1999 OHP (Action 1B.3) directs ODOT to avoid expansions of UGBs along
Interstate and Statewide Highways and around interchanges unless ODOT and the
appropriate local governments agree to an interchange area management plan to
protect interchange operation.

                                                        Ord. 838            8
                                                              B.0-04-28F
Tene ee eymondes Taira Fone
                                   pusig Aepoag aGucyoi0zu pue       gy gf        b
                       s9}110g ur}d AyuNoD [IYywWeA 03 3D0/qNS CAY   cal
                                                      sa1oyog Utid
                     aatsuayasdwog uoxieg jo Au 03 JOvIqns cay       r
                                                                         =>
                                           fsepunog yyaaig ueqin     -        a
                                            Pe oagewoyy parypow +4)
                                                                                      LIAPONP   INANTAOHICT   NOMVINOSSNV,
                                                                                      sepung-biaqmeny
root te agmenene ier Tore
                                     pursig Aepono aBueya.ow,       0 2 ae                                —                     aN     wes   ae      ‘fex
                 pue saiotiog Ueig Aung IIryUIe, o3 Joafqng cary         a   |-   ee      er      e000:   OS,   sts   05   20
                                                    so1niieg Utid
                     ansuayosdwog oapung jo Arp oF o!qng cory r      2
                 s                      Asepunog yynoig ueqin       7]
                                                                    a
                     vf
       a     a            i
                                         Pe PaReEWOTY PIyIPOW       SS
                 N
   souusig AepAQysmoyog urjg dusuayaidwoD jo Aupquoyddy
           aSuLYyIL9}U] JopuNgG sey              “7 - BOG 2ansiq
                                          =
                                                                                       eS
                                                                                       _Aquno),
                                                                                       \iywe,
                                                                                                                                     Darou   Taney   NOMVLYOASNVEL   9
                                                                                                                                     sepung-bieqman                  ZB
Saree gmenses GTI                                    uryosaUy PUT      ge
                              younsig Aepano 96! yoatgns cay
                  gayaitod Weld AURED MIMW
                                             EA OF                     aa?
                                          zanl PLE
                  yoursig Acpang a6ueto      OF yoaiqns         cay    fr
             aatsuayosdwo: 9 Bs0qenon 50 AUD
                                                                uEGN        7   ge
                                       fucpunog       yunaig
                                                                 p
                                           re onnewouy Poy!PoW S
                                                    Anpquonddy
              N                    aausuayesdwo: JO
              AvLRAQ/S9! noe Od Ud                       T
     ssid
                          108240                     "€ - 906    2NSL
          gaunyriajul 61Z
                    ek

                                                                                     het
                                                                                       SII op
                                                                                           —

                                                                                                   AA Hoday
                                                                                                                   TAOS   INT   NOMNLROSSNVAL.
                                                                                                gopunq-61 aqmMeN
                                                                                                Toaromd       Nd
                                                                                                                                          n
eOE Ee sag eday Teng oe
                                 yunsig AcyoAg oGucyouojuy pur    wy aga i
                    SO1d110d Ur{g ALUNOD IIYUIL, O3JDeIGNS Cory   as!
                 pUISIG ACpaAg aGucyoia3u] pur sooo ucId          r   P|     i
               PAISUDYRIGWIOD GiogMoan jo AyD 03 yDoIqng cary
               $                         Asepunog ynosg uegin
             WV
      3
                   /—     a
                                          Pr oanewany PoyIPoW
               N
  SIISI ALPIAQ/SHI
                 Og ULTg Iatsuaysadu0D Jo <upqvoyddy
          aBULYIIIIUT SIIGQAIN] ISEY             “fF - GONG 24NS1q
                              Bore   =
                                                                                       LION   ANUWSAONIIT   NOLLVIOaSNVAL,
                                                                                 Zea   Japung-biaqman