Volume 117
                                                        Page 1175
                                                                     15 APR 30 P4515
       BEFORE THE BOARD             OF COMMISSIONERS       OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment From                 )
Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to Agriculture/Forestry Small     )
Holding, and a Zoning Map Amendment from EF-40 Exclusive             )    Ordinance 891
Farm Use to AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding on a 10.1- )
Acre portion of Tax Lot 3315-3800 (Applicant Michael Kelley)    )
Planning Docket PAZ-01-15, and Declaring an Emergency                )

         THE   BOARD      OF    COMMISSIONERS        OF YAMHILL          COUNTY,     OREGON       (the
Board) sat for the transaction of county business on April 30, 2015,          Commissioners     Allen
Springer, Mary Starrett and Stan Primozich being present.

         If APPEARING          TO   THE   BOARD    that Michael     Kelley   has   requested   a plan
amendment    and zone change for an approximately       10.l-acre portion of Tax Lot 3315-3800
(18840 NE Williamson Road); and

        IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that this matter came before the Planning
Commision for public hearing on March 5, 2015 and that the Planning Commission voted 8-0 to
recommend approval of the application by the Board of Commissioners; and

         TT APPEARING TO THE BOARD             that this matter came before the Board on April 9,
2015 for public hearing and that, following the hearing and deliberation, the Board voted 2-0 to
tentatively approve the application pending the receipt of draft findings for approval from the
applicant, NOW, THEREFORE

         THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1.    The findings attached as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference
are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

         Section 2.    The Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Maps of Yamhill! County are hereby
amended as specified in the attached Exhibit “B,” incorporated herein by this reference, to reflect
a plan designation of “Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding,” and a zoning designation of “AF-10,
Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding” for the approximately 10.1l-acre portion of Tax Lot 3315-
3800 identified on the attached Exhibit “B” map.

i

if

                                                                                      Ordinance 891
                                                                                              Page |

                                                                               BO.       1S— iF
                                                                                          Volume 117
                                                                                           Page 1176

                                  ORDINANCE 891
                                    EXHIBIT A
                        FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF APPROVAL

DOCKET NO.:          PAZ-01-15

REQUEST:             Approval of a Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry
                     Large Holding to Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding and a zone change
                    from EF-40, Exclusive Farm use to AF-10, Agriculture/Forestry Small
                    Holding on a 10.1 acre portion of Tax Lot 3315-3800. This request
                    includes an exception to Goal 3.

APPLICANT:          Michael Kelley

TAX LOT:             3315-3800

LOCATION:            18840 NE Williamson Road, Newberg

CRITERIA:           Sections 402, 501, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                    Ordinance.

                    Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan policies I.B.1.D, I.B.1.H, I1.A.1.B,
                    Goal IT.A.2 and Policy ILA.2.A

                    OAR 660-04, Exception process for Goal 3.

                    OAR 660-12-0060 Transportation Planning Rule.

L    Background Facts:

1.   Property size: The parcel is 37.5 acres.

2.   Access: Williamson Road.

3.   On-site Land Use: The Property has a single family dwelling located in the southwest
     comer of the parcel, and the area surrounding the dwelling is generally forested with
     Douglas fir and other tree species. Applicant refers to this portion of the Property as the
     “Residential Area.” The northern and southeastern portion of the Property contains a
     vineyard and additional plantable acreage. The Applicant refers to this area of the
     Property as the “Farm Area.”

4.   Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: The area to the east and west is zoned AF-10 and
     predominantly comprises parcels of approximately 1.5 to 6 acres in size with rural
     residences and wooded areas, The parcel to the north is also zoned AF-10 and is a
     vineyard. The two parcels bordering the subject parcel to the south are zoned AF-40. One
     parcel is approximately 24 acres and contains a dwelling with some vineyard and forested
     areas, and the other parcel is 87 acres with a dwelling and is predominately forested.

                                                                Ordinance 89] Exhibit A       Page 1
                                                                     B.0,      1&-N4
.   Volume   117
    Page 1177

                   Section 3.   This Ordinance being necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the
      citizens of Yamhill       County,   and an emergency   having been   declared to exist, is effective
      immediately.

                   DONE this 30" day of April, 2015, at McMinnville, Oregon.

      ATTEST:                                     YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                                                   ]
                                            de,                      f°
      BRIAN VAN BERGEN pe                                     L eiplindt
                                                                7”   ALLEN SPRINGER

      Tit lothy S. Sadlo
      Assistant County Counsel

                                                                                           ORDINANCE 891
                                                              Accepted by Yamhill County           Page 2
                                                              Board of Commissioners on
                                                              Ad           NS     by Board Order
                                                              FomomatS
                                                                    ~ NS
                             Volume 117
                              Page 1178
                                            NCE NO. 891
               EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINA
                                             NE CHANGE
              PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZO
                                                        ISSIONERS
                            L COUNTY BOARD OF COMM
  ADOPTED BY THE YAMHIL
                             APRIL 30, 2015
                                                FROM
                  FOR A PLAN AMENDMENT
                                                 E HOLDING
         AFLH,    AGRICUL TURE/FORESTRY LARG
                                  TO
                                        TRY SMALL H OLDING
          AFSH, AGRICUL TURE/FORES
                     AND A ZONE CHANGE FROM
                     EF-40, EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                   TO
                                      ESTRY SMALL HOLDING
          AF-10, AGRIC ULTURE/FOR

                       “|
                       is

     NT)

      3901

      4.8 AC,                                                                                                        42 A
                                                                                       S|
                                  37,5 AC
                                                                                       5 3000
                       :5                             EF-A0

                                                                                                    45 AC.

                                                                                       Es
      7ee         —
                                                                                       a”
                             :                                                              Po
      neettntttnnttnner el
                                                                                                            2800

                                                                                            5               35 AC.

                                                                                                        {
                                                                                                    }
                                                                    S178                        é                       gar
                                        11.25 CH
                                                              600

                                                               OF TAX      LOT   3315-3800                  AS     HIGHLIGHTED
            APPLIES              TO   A 10 ACRE    PORTION
CHANGE
                       LE - 1 INCH = 300 FEET
ABOVE. APPROXIMATE SCA
                                                                                    Bo.                       1S-       NA
                                                               Volume 117
                                                                Page 1179

      Water: Provided by an existing on-site well.

      Sewage Disposal: Provided by an existing on-site septic system.

      Fire Protection: Newberg Rural Fire District.

      Soils: The USDA Soil Map provided by Applicant show that the Residential Area is
      composed mostly of Jory soils (JrD, JrE, JRF) that are rated agriculture Class III and IV
      and VI. The maps indicate that the majority of soils in the Farm Area are Saum-Parrett
      complex soil, which is considered farmland of statewide importance.

      Taxes: The parcel has 18 acres in farm deferral, 17.5 acres in forest deferral, and two
      acres at market value.

10.   Previous Actions: In 2004, an application for a winery was approved through Docket C-
      19-04/SDR-11-04. A request for removal of the property from the Yamhill County
      Cultural Resources Inventory was granted in 1995 through Docket LCR-1-95.
      Additionally, the property was reconfigured by a lot-line adjustment approved in 1998
      through Docket L-44-98.

il.   Floodplain: The property is not within the 100-year flood hazard area.

12.   Fish and Wildlife: The property is not identified as critical fish or wildlife habitat.

13.   Context of Land Use Application: Applicant purchased the Property approximately
      fifteen years ago. At the time of purchase, the Property mostly consisted of an abandoned
      orchard. Applicant developed a successful commercial vineyard on the Property,
      constructed his home, and reforested several acres surrounding the dwelling.

      Applicant testified that, due to medical issues, Applicant is no longer able to maintain the
      vineyard on the Property. Applicant wishes to preserve the vineyard farm use of the
      Property, and therefore sought a buyer who would maintain the vineyard. Applicant
      located a prospective purchaser who owns a local winery and wishes to utilize and
      expand the vineyard on the Property as a supply of wine grapes for this winery. The
      prospective purchaser, however, does not wish to purchase the dwelling and surrounding
      Residential Area of the Property. Applicant, for his part, wishes to continue to reside in
      his existing dwelling and to preserve the surrounding forested area of the Property for
      erosion control, wildlife habitat and aesthetics. Applicant and the prospective purchaser
      therefore reached an agreement to put forward the instant land use application to the
      County.

      Given this context, the Board finds that Applicant’s proposed rezoning of the 10.1 acre
      Residential Area of the Property is conducive to preservation of farmland and other
      natural resources on the Property consistent with Oregon land use policy.

                                                                   Ordinance 891 ExhibitA       Page 2
                                                                                           Volume 117
                                                                                            Page 1180
i.     Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis:

Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the standards and
criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. Each of these provisions is provided below and accompanied
by analysis of Applicant’s compliance with the relevant standards and criteria. This section also
discusses additional criteria identified in the record and explains why the Board concludes that
these additional criteria are not relevant to Applicant’s proposal.

1,     1208.02(A) The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
       applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

Regarding criterion (A) above, the Board concludes that Comprehensive Plan policies 1.B.1.D,
and ILA.1.B , I.A.1.H, Goal II.A.2, and Policy II.A.2.a are applicable to Applicant’s request.
These and other policies identified in the record are discussed below.

       Policy LB.1.D.: No proposed rural area development shall require or substantially
       influence the extension of costly services and facilities normally associated with urban
       centers, such as municipal water supply and sanitary sewerage or power, gas and
       telephone services, nor shall it impose inordinate additional net costs on mobile,
       centralized public services, such as police and fire protection, school busing or refuse
       collection.

       The Board finds that Applicant does not propose any new development or facilities on the
       Property other than expanded vineyard farm use. Therefore, to the extend this policy
       applies to Applicant’s proposal, the proposal is consistent with the policy because neither
       the Farm Area nor the Residential Area of the Property will require additional public
       services. A well and septic system currently serve the existing dwelling. Other services
       such as electricity, telephone, and emergency services already serve the existing residents
       in the area. This criterion is therefore met.

       Policy ILA.1.B: Yamhill County shall provide for the protection of farmland in large
       blocks through minimum lot sizes of 20, 40, and 80 acres, as appropriate, on the
       Comprehensive Plan and official zoning maps. Any proposal to reduce the minimum lot
       size on a farm or farm/forest parcel shall be shown to be appropriate to maintain the
       existing commercial agricultural enterprise in the area.

       The Board concludes that this policy is applicable because Applicant proposes to reduce
       the size of an EF-40 zoned parcel from 37.4 acres to 27.3 acres. The Board interprets this
       policy to allow the reduction of EF-40 land on the Property because the rezoning is
       intended to preserve the Farm Area as a viable commercial agricultural enterprise. The
       record includes testimony the Property is more desirable as a commercial vineyard
       without the dwelling and surrounding Residential Area. Furthermore, Applicant testified
       that he is no longer able to maintain the vineyard because of his medical condition, and
       that the proposed buyer intends to maintain and expand the vineyard. Applicant’s
       proposal therefore ensures the maintenance of the existing commercial agricultural
       enterprise on the Property and is therefore consistent with Policy ILA.1.B.

                                                                 Ordinance 891 ExhibitA      Page 3
Volume 117
 Page 1181

     Policy ILA.1.H.: No proposed rural area development shall substantially impair or
     conflict with the use of farm or forest land, or be justified solely or even primarily on the
     argument that the land is unsuitable for farming or forestry or, due to ownership, is not
     currently part of an economic farming or forestry enterprise.

     The Board finds that Applicant’s intent is to ensure continued farm use and the
     preservation of other natural resources on the Property. Given this intent and the fact that
     Applicant is not proposing any new development on the Property other than expanded
     farm use, the Board concludes that the rezone will not substantially impair or conflict
     with the current resource uses. This criterion is therefore met.

     Goal I.A.2.: To Conserve Yamhill County’s soil resources in a manner reflecting their
     suitability for forestry, agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the
     purposes designated on the county plan map.

      Additionally, Policy ILA.2.A.. Yamhill County will continue to preserve those areas for
     farin use which exhibit Class I through IV soils as identified in the Capability
     Classification System of the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.

     The Board finds that Applicant’s proposal conserves soil resources throughout the
     Property by preserving agricultural use in the Farm Area and the existing woodland in the
     Residential Area. The latter intent avoids soil erosion on the steep slopes in this part of
     the Property.

     The USDA soil map of the Property indicates that vast majority of the soils in the
     Residential Area of the Property are Class VI, and therefore the Board finds that this area
     of the Property is not subject to Policy IL.A.2.A.

     According to the USDA map, the portions of the Residential Area that contain Class IIT
     and IV soils ave under and immediately adjacent to the existing dwelling. The Board
     therefore finds that this area of the Property is not available for farm use. As a result, the
     Board interprets Policy IJ.A.2.A to be inapplicable to the Class IIT and IV soils in the
     Residential Area of the Property because Applicant cannot “continue to preserve” these
     areas for farm use.

     For these reasons, the Board concludes that Applicant has demonstrated compliance with
     Goal II.A.2 and Policy ILA.2.A to the extent that these provisions of the Comprehensive
     Plan apply to Applicant’s proposal.

     The Applicant’s application materials discuss an additional policy, Policy 1.B.1C.2,
     which provides that:

     All proposed rural area development and facilities: ...(2) Shall not be located in any
     natural hazard area, such as a floodplain or area of geologic hazard, steep slope, severe
     drainage problems or soil limitations for building or sub-surface sewage disposal, if
     relevant;

                                                                  Ordinance 891 Exhibit A     Page 4
                           Volume 117
                            Page 1182

        The Board concludes that this policy is not applicable because Applicant does not
        propose any new development or facilities on the Property other than expanded vineyard
        farm use. Moreover, the Board finds that preservation of the forested Residential Area
        through rural residential use will help prevent erosion of the steep slopes in this area of
        the Property.

2.      1208.02(B): There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by
        the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
        economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the
        availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed
        by the zone.

The Applicant is requesting AF-10 zoning for the 10.1 acre Residential Area of the Property. The
remainder of the Property (the Farm Area) would remain in EFU zoning. As noted by the Friends
of Yamhill County (“FYC”), Applicant must show the need for AF-10 zoning under YCZO
1208.02B because that is the change in zoning that Applicant is requesting.

Applicant states that he can no longer maintain the vineyard on the Property and that the
vineyard is a more attractive farm business unit without the accompanying dwelling and
Residential Area. Applicant explained that his proposed rezoning (and subsequent partition)
ensures that there will be a buyer for the vineyard who will maintain the Farm Area of the
Property in farm use, Testimony from the proposed buyer’s attorney corroborates Applicant’s
statements.

Applicant further testified that the rezoning (and subsequent partition) will allow Applicant to
continue to reside in the home that he has built and enjoy the land that he has stewarded for the
past fifteen years.

The Board must interpret the YCZO to determine whether Applicant’s situation satisfies the
“demonstrable need” standard of 1208.02B, The Board interprets YCZO 1208.02B to encompass
Applicant’s particular situation. Applicant has shown an existing demonstrable need for AF-10
zoning in the Residential Area of his Property in order to ensure the continuity of farm use on the
Property and a reasonable retirement for himself. In reaching this conclusion, the Board finds it
significant that the rezoning will not lead to new residential development and will facilitate the
preservation of natural resources of the Property.

As contemplated by YCZO 1208.02B, the Board finds that this interpretation fosters sustainable
economic development, conservation of natural resources, and the well-being of the local
citizenry. Through this interpretation, the Board does not intend to encourage rural residential
development on land in agricultural use. For all of the reasons described above, this criterion is
therefore met.

3.      1208.02(C): The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses,
        the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
        occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
        utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

                                                                    Ordinance 891 ExhibitA      Page 5
                                                                Volume 117
                                                                 Page 1183

Surrounding lands to the north, east, and west are zoned AF-10 and are generally small size rural
residential lots similar to Applicant’s proposed 10.1 acre AF-10 parcel. Other than Tax Lots,
3801, 3802, and 3803, these lands are part of code area 1.6 adopted in Exceptions Statement II.
The areas to the east and west are generally parcels of approximately 1.5 to 6 acres in size with
rural residences and wooded areas.

Tax Lots 3801, 3802, and 3803 to the north of the Property were rezoned from EFU to AF-10
and partitioned in 2004. Lots 3801 and 3802 are now small rural residential parcels. Lot 3803,
which is north-adjacent to the Farm Area of Applicant’s Property, is approximately 24 acres and
contains a vineyard. Applicant’s proposal is consistent with the County’s 2004 action on these
parcels, and Applicant’s request that the Farm Area of the Property remain in EFU zoning
provides additional assurance that farm use will continue on the Property.

Two larger farm/forest parcels exist to the south of the Property (lots 600 and 701). The wooded
area of Applicant’s Property abuts forested areas of these parcels. Applicant’s intent to preserve
the wooded Residential Area of the Property through AF-10 zoning is consistent with the land
use of these parcels, provides continuity in the landscape, and promotes conservation of natural
resources.

Regarding the availability of utilities and services in the area, the parcels in the surrounding area
as well as the subject parcel have on-site wells and septic systems. Other services such as
electricity, telephone, sheriff, and fire protection already serve the existing residents in the area.
No extension of services is anticipated to be needed for the proposed application.

For all of these reasons, the Board finds that Applicant’s proposed rezoning is appropriate given
the land use and development characteristics of the surrounding area. Applicant has therefore
demonstrated compliance with YCZO        1208.02C.

4,      1208.02(D): Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are
        either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
        other factors.

Under Applicant’s proposal, the Farm Area would continue in vineyard farm use and Applicant
would continue to reside in his existing dwelling in the Residential Area of the Property. FYC
asserts that the proposed rezoning is unjustified because other rural residential parcels are
available for Applicant to purchase. The Board does not believe that YCZO        1208D requires
Applicant to leave his home.

The Board interprets this criterion to allow Applicant’s proposed rezoning because no other
parcel is as well suited to Applicant’s residential use given Applicant’s history of stewardship of
the Property and his personal attachment to his home and the surrounding land. The Board also
finds it relevant that Applicant’s proposal does not cause any change in the actual land use
pattern of the area because Applicant is not proposing any new development on the Property.
The Board therefore concludes that Applicant has satisfied this criterion.

3.      1208.02(E): The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules
       for exceptions, if applicable.

                                                                    Ordinance 891 ExhibitA        Page 6
                                                                                         Volume 117
                                                                                          Page 1184

Regarding this criterion (E), an exception to Goal 3 is required, as addressed in Section III of
these findings below.

FYC asserts that an exception to Goal 4 is also required for the County to approve Applicant’s
proposal. The Board concludes that Goal 4 is not applicable to the Property for two reasons.
First, the County applies EFU zoning to agricultural lands pursuant to Goal 3, Forestry (F)
zoning to forest lands pursuant to Goal 4, and Agricultural-Forestry Large Holding (AFLH)
zoning to lands subject to both goals. This is explained in Policies II.A.1.C and II.B.1E of the
County’s Comprehensive Plan as follows:

               Yamhill   County recognizes that certain areas of the county are
               characterized by such a mixture of farm and forest use that the
               agricultural lands and forest lands goals of this Plan are both
               applicable. Farm and forest resources within these areas shall be
               protected through mixed-use zoning that recognizes both types of
               use. Any proposal to change the zoning designation of a parcel
               from a farm or forest classification to a mixed-use zone shall
               include a demonstration that the use of the parcel is such a mixture
               that neither the farm nor forest land goals can be exclusively
               applied.

In applying EFU zoning to the Property, therefore, the County has determined that Goal 4 does
not apply to the Property. This determination is consistent with state law, which provides that
“lands inventoried as Goal 3 agricultural lands . . . are not required to [be] planned and zoned as
forest lands.” OAR 660-06-0010(1).

Second, the Board finds that the Residential Area of the Property is not suitable for commercial
forest uses, and therefore concludes that the Property is not “forest land” under Goal 4. In
adopting this finding, the Board accepts Michael Kelley’s testimony that commercial forestry is
impractical on the Property due to the size and density of the woodland area, the buffer needed to
prevent impacts to Bronson Creek, and the risk of hillside erosion. This criterion is therefore met.

Il.   _ Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis:

Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-04 contains the requirements for taking an exception to
the goals. The Applicant has requested a “committed” exception. OAR 660-04-028 indicates that
a committed exception may be taken when land is irrevocably committed to uses not allowed by
the applicable goal because existing adjacent uses and other relevant factors make uses allowed
by the goal impracticable. OAR 660-04-028(3) states in part that:         ,

               it is the purpose of this rule to permit irrevocably committed
               exceptions where justified so as to provide flexibility in the
               application of broad resource protection goals. It shall not be
               required that local governments demonstrate that every use
               allowed by the applicable goal is “impossible.” For exceptions to
               Goals 3 or 4, local governments are required to demonstrate that
               only the following uses or activities are impracticable:

                                                                   Ordinance 891 ExhibitA      Page 7
     Volume 117
      Page 1185

                  (a) Farm use as defined in ORS 215.203;
                  (b) Propagation or harvesting of a forest product as specified in
                  OAR 660-033-0120; and
                  (c) Forest operations or forest practices as specified in OAR 660-
                  006-0025(2)(a).

This section of the Board’s decision identifies each applicable criterion for this exception and
provides the Board’s findings and related legal conclusions for these criteria. Following this
discussion, we provide our findings and conclusions regarding the impracticability of the
relevant uses under OAR 660-04-0028(1) and (3).

i.        OAR 660-004-0028(2)(a): Characteristics of the exception area

In order to characterize the exception area, we must first define the exception area. The
Applicant requests an exception to Goal 3 for the 10.1 acre Residential Area of the Property.
Under this proposal, the remainder of the property (the Farm Area) would continue to be zoned
EFU and would remain subject to Goal 3. The Applicant therefore defines the proposed
exception area as the 10.1 acre Residential Area.
The Oregon Department of Land Conservation and Development (“DLCD”) and FYC both argue
that we must look beyond the Residential Area and effectively treat the entire Property as an
exception area because the Residential Area is part of a larger “farm unit.” The Board concludes
that DLCD’s and FYC’s position is inconsistent with the plain text of DLCD rules.

DCLD’s rules governing committed exceptions apply to “exception areas.” OAR 660-004-
0028(1)(b) states that “[f]or the purposes of this rule, an ‘exception area’ is that area of land for
which a ‘committed exception’ is taken.” Therefore, because Applicant is only seeking an
exception (and associated rezoning) for the Residential Area of the Property, the Farm Area is
not part of the “exception area” for purposes of OAR 660-004-0028.

Moreover, the Board finds that the Residential Area of the Property is not part of the same farm
unit as the Farm Area of the Property. Applicant’s testimony, as well as maps and soil data
demonstrate that the Residential Area is physically distinct from the Farm Area. In addition, staff
testified that the existing residence was not historically approved as a farm dwelling. The Board
therefore concludes that is not appropriate to evaluate the Property as an integrated farm unit.

Based on Applicant’s testimony, maps, and soil data, the Board finds that the Residential Area of
the Property is characterized by a single family dwelling and steep, northern-facing, forested
slopes with shallow soils. Bronson Creek runs through this this portion of the Property.

The Board also reiterates its finding under YCZO 1202E above that the Residential Area is not
suitable for commercial forestry use due to density of the woodland area, the buffer needed to
prevent impacts to the local creek, and the risk of hillside erosion. For all of these reasons, this
criterion is therefore met.

2.        OAR 660-004-0028(2)(b): Characteristics of the adjacent lands

                                                                    Ordinance 891 Exhibit A      Page 8
                             Volume 117
                              Page 1186

As described above, the Board finds that the Farm Area of the Property adjacent to the
Residential Area is currently in farm use as a vineyard. Applicant and the proposed buyer of the
Farm Area intend to maintain and expand this vineyard as a supply of wine grapes for the
prospective buyer’s local winery. The parcel that is north-adjacent to the Farm Area (not
adjacent to the Residential Area), is similarly in vineyard use, but is zoned AF-10 pursuant to a
2004 rezoning.

The Board finds that the parcels east- and west- adjacent to the Residential Area are
approximately 1.5 acres to 6 acres, zoned AF-10, and include single-family residences and
wooded areas.

The Board finds that the two parcels adjacent to the Property to the south, tax lots 600 and 701,
are approximately 24 acres and 87 acres, respectively, and zoned as AF-40. Lot 600 includes a
single-family residence and a small vineyard surrounded by a wooded area. Tax lot 701 mostly
consists of a wooded area, and also contains a single family residence. For all of these reasons,
this criterion is therefore met.

3.      OAR 660-004-0028(2)(c): The relationship between the exception area and the lands
        adjacent to it

Based on the information described above under exception criteria (2)(a) and (b), the Board finds
that the Residential Area of the Property is similar in size and rural residential character to the
adjacent lands to the east and west. The woodland in the Residential Area of the Property also
integrates with the AF-40 lands to the south. Applicant’s intent to preserve the woodland in the
Residential Area ensures a continued buffer between Applicant’s existing residence and these
southern properties.

The Board also finds, based on Applicant’s testimony, maps, and soil data, that the Property’s
soil and geography naturally divide the Property into the Residential Area and the Farm Area.
The Board accepts Applicant’s testimony that Applicant and the prospective purchaser of the
Farm Area have reached agreements to provide an access easement to the Residential Area and
to share water from the well on the Residential Area. The Board therefore concludes that the
rezoning of the Property as proposed will result in harmonious use of the Residential Area and
the Farm Area. For all of these reasons, this criterion is therefore met.

4.      OAR 660-004-0028(6)(a): Existing Adjacent Uses

Regarding this criterion, the Board incorporates our findings regarding OAR 660-004-
0028(2)(b). For clarity, the Board finds that west-adjacent lots 4300 and 4400 are in open space
use in conjunction with the single family residence on Lot 4200. Lots 2900, 3000, and 3901 are
also in rural residential use. A portion of the Lot 400 to the south is in farm use with the
remainder in open space with a single family residence. Lot 701 is mostly forested land in open
space and residential use. For all of these reasons, this criterion is therefore met.

5.      OAR 660-004-0028 (6)(b): Existing Public Facilities and Services
The Board finds that electricity, telephone, sheriff, and fire protection are provided to the
Residential Area and surrounding properties. The Residential Area is served by an existing well
and septic system. For all of these reasons, this criterion is therefore met.
                                                                     Ordinance 891 ExhibitA     Page 9
                                                                 Volume 117
                                                                  Page 1187

6.       OAR 660-004-0028(6)(c): Parcel size and ownership patterns of the exception area and
         adjacent lands
The Board incorporates its findings above regarding YCZO 1202C and OAR 660-004-
0028(2)(b) and (c) above. The AF-10 zoned parcels that are adjacent to the Residential Area, as
well as many other nearby parcels are part of code area 1.6 adopted under Exceptions Statement
IL in 1980, These lands were subdivided/partitioned before adoption of the Statewide Planning
Goals, and the lands were zoned AF-10 in 1980 pursuant to a committed exception.

Although not adjacent to the Residential Area, the Board notes that Lots 3801, 3802, and 3803
were partitioned in 2004 following approval of a committed exception and associated rezoning
from EFU to AF-10, Lot 3801 is adjacent to the Farm Area of the property.

The parcels adjacent to the Residential Area are generally in separate ownerships and developed
with single family residences. The Board finds that this development pattern and the related road
network and property boundaries make it impracticable to consolidate land for resource uses, and
also to harvest the timber resources that remain on the Property, The Board further discusses
impracticability below under OAR 660-06-0028(1) and (3). For all of these reasons, this criterion
is therefore met.

7.      OAR 660-004-0028(6)(d): Neighborhood and regional characteristics

The Board incorporates its findings from YCZO 1202C, OAR 660-004-0028(2)(b) and (c), and
OAR 660-004-0028(6)(c) above. The Property is within the Dundee Hills winegrowing area, and
there are many successful vineyards in this area. The Board finds that the success of local
vineyards and wineries promotes agricultural preservation, particularly on smaller parcels where
other crops are impracticable, For all of these reasons, this criterion is therefore met.

&.     OAR 660-004-0028 (6)(e): Natural or man-made features or other impediments
       separating the exception area from adjacent resource land

The Board incorporates its findings under OAR 660-004-0028(2)(c) above. As described in that
section of this decision, the Residential Area is naturally separated from the Farm Area of the
Property and the AF-40 lands to the south. Applicant’s proposed use of the Residential Area will
ensure non-interference with resource uses on these adjacent parcels. For all of these reasons,
this criterion is therefore met.

9.      OAR 660-04-0028(6)(f): Physical development

The Board incorporates its background findings in Part I above, as well as our findings under
YCZO 1202E, OAR 660-004-0028(2)(b) and (c), and OAR 660-004-0028(6)(c). The Board
further finds that the Residential Area is physically developed for rural residential use due to the
existing dwelling and the character of the surrounding woodland. The Board finds that this
residential development will not interfere with resources uses in the Farm Area of the Property
and is also compatible with resource uses on the south-adjacent AF-40 zoned parcels. For all of
these reasons, this criterion is therefore met.

                                                                   Ordinance 891 ExhibitA     Page 10
                                                                                             Volume 117
                                                                                              Page 1188
10.     OAR 660-04-0028(6)(g): Other relevant factors

The Board finds it relevant that the purpose of Applicant’s proposal is to preserve and expand the
existing farm use on the Property rather than to enable further non-resource development of the
Property. Based on testimony from Applicant and the proposed buyer’s attorney, the Board finds
that rezoning of the Residential Area of the Property will make long term continued farm use on
the Property more likely due to the specific characteristics of the Property and Applicant’s
personal situation.

The Board also finds it relevant and appropriate that Applicant’s proposed partition will enable
the Applicant to continue to reside in his existing dwelling and to preserve the woodland area of
the Property for wildlife habitat, erosion control and aesthetics.

FYC argues that the characteristics of the Property and Applicant’s intent in submitting the land
use application are irrelevant under the criteria for a committed exception. The Oregon Court of
Appeals and LUBA, however, have rejected this argument. See DECD y. Curry County, 151 Or
App 7 (1997); Friends of Linn County y. Linn County, 38 Or LUBA 868, 876-77 (2000). The
County therefore concludes that it is appropriate for the Board to consider this information.

Finally, the Board concludes that it must consider the basic purpose of DLCD’s exception rules.
OAR 660-04-0000 states that “[t]he intent of the exceptions process is to permit necessary
flexibility in the application of the Statewide Planning Goals.” This purpose is reiterated in the
committed exception rules at OAR 660-004-0028(3). The Board concludes that flexibility in the
application of Goal 3 is particularly appropriate here given that Applicant’s proposed use of the
Property furthers the purpose of Goal 3. For all of these reasons, this criterion is therefore met.

il.     OAR 660-04-0028(1) and (3): Impracticability of farming and forestry uses

For the reasons described throughout this Part III of the Board’s decision, the Board finds that
farm use (ORS 215,203), propagation or harvesting of a forest product (OAR 660-033-0120) and
forest operations and practices (OAR 660-006-0025(2)(a)) are all impracticable in the proposed
exception area, which is the Residential Area of the Property. All of these uses would require
logging of the woodland area of the Property. Based on testimony from Applicant and related
evidence in the record, the Board finds that such logging is cost prohibitive, and also risks
erosion onto the Property and adjacent parcels.

Furthermore, the Board finds based on local maps and other evidence in the record that access
for logging is impracticable given property boundaries and the local road network built for
residential use. There is no access to the wooded area of the Property except through the Farm
Area and residential portions of North Williamson Road. Transportation of timber across the
Property could interfere with farming practices in the Farm Area of the Property and the adjacent
vineyard on Lot 3803, and also disrupt nearby residential parcels.

As described above, the Board finds that even ifthe Property could be practically logged, the
Residential Area would not be suitable for farm use due to the steep, northern-facing slopes and
shallow soils.

Finally, the Board believes that the practicability of logging the property should be viewed in the
context of Applicant’s proposal. Applicant’s proposed rezoning will serve to preserve the natural
                                                                   Ordinance 891 Exhibit A      Page 11
Volume 117
 Page 1189

   resources and farm use of the Property. This is a more practical and desirable outcome under
   state and local land use policy than logging the Property and/or risking neglect of the productive
   vineyard by blocking the sale of the Farm Area of the Property.

   For all these reasons, the Board finds that Applicant’s proposal satisfies the impracticability
   standard for a committed exception under OAR 660-004-0028.

   IV.   _ Goal 12 (Transportation Planning Rule) Provisions and Analysis:

                                                                     Ordinance 891 Exhibit   A   Page 12
                       Volume 117
                        Page 1190

 1.     The Transportation Planning Rule, OAR 660-12-060, provides as follows:

        (1)     Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive
                plans, and land use regulations which significantly affect a
                transportation facility shall assure that allowed land uses are
                consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of
                service of the facility. This shall be accomplished by either:
                (a)     Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the
                        planned function, capacity and level of service of the
                        transportation facility;
                (b)   — Amending the TSP [Transportation System Plan] to provide
                        transportation facilities adequate to support the proposed
                        land uses consistent with the requirements of this division;
                        or,
                (c)  _ Altering land use designations, densities, or design
                        requirements to reduce demand for automobile travel and
                        meet travel needs through other modes.
        (2)   — A plan or land use regulation amendment significantly affects a
                transportation facility if it:
                (a)     Changes the functional classification of an existing or
                       planned transportation facility;
                (b)     Changes standards implementing a functional
                        classification system,
                (c)     Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in
                        levels of travel or access which are inconsistent with the
                       Jinctional classification of a transportation facility; or
                (d)     Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the
                       minimum acceptable level identified in the TSP.

Based on findings articulated throughout this decision, the Board concludes that the
Transportation Planning Rule is not applicable because the proposed rezoning will not
significantly affect a transportation facility. As described above, the Applicant does not propose
any new development on the Property other than expansion of the vineyard farm use. Expansion
of the vineyard will not appreciably increase traffic in the local area. For all of these reasons, the
Transportation Planning Rule does not apply inthis case.

Vv.     Response to Other Issues Raised

The Board agrees with FYC that OAR 660-004-0018(2)(b)(B) is applicable to Applicant’s
proposal. This rule requires that “[t]he rural uses, density, and public facilities and services will
not commit adjacent or nearby resource land to uses not allowed by the applicable goal.” The
Board finds that Applicant’s proposed exception will not commit other lands to uses not allowed
under Goal 3 because Applicant does not propose any new development on the Property. As
previously described, the purpose of Applicant’s proposal is to preserve farm use and other
natural resources on the Property. The exception therefore will not increase density, create new

                                                                   Ordinance 891 Exhibit A     Page 13
                                                                  Volume 117
                                                                   Page 119]

land use uses, nor require additional public facilities or services. The Board therefore concludes
that Applicant has demonstrated compliance with OAR 660-004-0018(2)(b)(B).

CONCLUSIONS:

1.     The request is for a Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change from
       Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding, EF-40 to Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding, AF-
        10, including an exception to Goal 3,

       The proposed zone change is consistent with all applicable Comprehensive Plan goals
       and policies.

       An exception to Goal 3 is justified because farming and forestry uses are impracticable in
       the Residential Area of the Property, and the adjacent small residential lots, roads, and
       uses contribute to the area being irrevocably committed to residential use.

       The proposed change is consistent with the zone change criteria of Section 1208.02.

       The proposed change complies with the Transportation Planning Rule.

                                                                  Ordinance 891 Exhibit A    Page 14

                                                                           4.0,      1&-NA