IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                 FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of Approving a Comprehensive
Plan        Map       Amendment         from
Agriculture/Forestry   Large    Holding    to
Commercial Forestry and a Zone Change from                ORDINANCE 949
Exclusive Farm Use (EF-80) to Forestry Large
Holding (F-80) for Tax Lot No. R4524 00702
and Approving Planning Docket No. PAZ-01-
25; and Declaring an Emergency and Setting
the Effective Date

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for
the transaction of county business on April 16, 2026, Commissioners Kit Johnston, Mary
Starrett, and David “Bubba” King being present.

IT APPEARING     TO THE BOARD       as follows:

      WHEREAS, An application (Docket No. PAZ-01-25) was submitted by Catherine A.
Wright, on behalf of property owner Damien Meskill, requesting a comprehensive plan map
amendment for Tax Lot No. R4524 00702 from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding to
Commercial Forestry and a zone change from Exclusive Farm Use (EF-80) to Forestry Large
Holding (F-80); and

        WHEREAS, The application was reviewed pursuant to the applicable provisions of the
Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance and the Oregon Administrative Rules, as further detailed in
the attached Exhibit A and incorporated herein; and

        WHEREAS, The Yamhill County Planning Commission held a duly noticed public
hearing on the application on January 8, 2026, and recommended approval; and

        WHEREAS, The Yamhill County Board of Commissioners held a duly noticed public
hearing on the application on March 26, 2026; and

         WHEREAS, The Board considered the entire record before them in their determination
that the proposed amendment complies with the Yamhill County Zoning Code, the Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies, including those related to agricultural and forest
resource lands, and the applicable Oregon Administrative Rules, as the parcel is more suitable
for forest use and will remain in a resource designation; and

                                                                                        B.O. 26-095
                                                                     Yamhill County Ordinance No. 949
                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
        WHEREAS, Following deliberations, the Board voted unanimously to approve the
application; and now, therefore

THE BOARD ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. Tax Lot No. R4524 00702, as further identified in the attached Exhibit B, is
hereby redesignated on the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Map from Agriculture Forestry
Large Holding to Commercial Forestry and rezoned from Exclusive Farm Use (EF-80) to
Forestry District (F-80).

        Section 2. The findings attached hereto as Exhibit A are hereby adopted in support of this
Ordinance.

         Section 3. This Ordinance being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the
citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective
immediately.

DATED this 16 day of April, 2026, at McMinnville, Oregon.

                                      YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

ATTEST                                      ) / 0              p   |                  AYE NAY
                                                                                      xX
KERI HINTON                           Chair KIT    JOHNSTON
County Clerk

Deputy CAROLINA ROOK                  Commissioner MARY STARRETT
                                                    )     Pa

FORM APPROVED         BY:                  7 rz     4

Kelle       er te           _              -/)     ii                                  x
KALEB    RAEVER                       Commissioner DAVID “BUBBA” KING
Assistant Yamhill County Counsel

                                        Approved by the Yamhill County Board of

                                        Commissioners on 94/17/2026

                                        via Board Order 26-995

                                                                       Yamhill County Ordinance No. 949
                                                                                              Page 2 of 2
DOCKET NO.                 PAZ-01-25
OWNER:                     Damien Meskill
APPLICANT:                 Catherine A. Wright

Findings - Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis

The decision on the requested zone change is based on compliance with the review criteria found
in Section 1208.03 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance, as follows:

            Review Criteria for Amendments to or within Exclusive Farm Use and
            Agricultural/Forestry zones

A quasi-judicial zone change to (1) amend the designation of land from Exclusive Farm use,
Agriculture/Forestry, or Forest to another of these zones, or (2) change the minimum lot size of
land designated Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry, may be authorized, pursuant to
Subsection 1208.01, provided that the request satisfies all applicable requirements of this
ordinance, and also provided that the applicant demonstrates compliance with the following
criteria:

A, The proposed amendment shall comply with the goals, policies, and other applicable
provisions of the comprehensive plan.

Regarding criterion (A), applicable goals from the Yamhill County Comprehensive Land use
Plan, Section 11.05.02.01(b), Goal reads:

To conserve Yamhill County's farmlands for the production of crops and livestock and to ensure
that the conversion of farm land to urban use where necessary and appropriate occurs in an
orderly and economical manner.

The policies related to this goal include the preservation of farmland through appropriate zoning,
maintaining large blocks of agricultural land through minimum lot size requirements, and
comparing economic outcomes from agricultural or alternative land uses. In this instance, the
requested zone change is from Exclusive Farm Use, EF-80 to Forestry Large Holding, F-80.
While the requested change would move the property from agricultural zoning, it would help
maintain the significant tracts of lands zoned for forestry which are contiguous to the subject
parcel.

The property is currently planted with grass seed, hay, and trees however those farming practices
have not been successful and the property produces poor hay crop. Neighboring lands are far
more successful growing tree species, both Christmas trees and commercial timber. Some other
portions of the property already contain commercial tree species. The property would not be
converted to an urban use, it would remain in a resource use.

Section 11.05.02.01(c), Goal reads:

To conserve Yamhill County's soil resources in a manner reflecting their suitability for forestry,

                                                 -|-
                                                                                           B.O. 26-095
agriculture and urban development and their sustained use for the purposes designated on the
county plan map.

This goal calls for the preservation of areas for farm use which are classified as Class I through
IV soils. While this property is composed of higher value soils, hay farming has not been
successful. Yamhill County soil maps show approximately 17.9 acres of the 18.8 acre parcel are
capable of producing 125 cubic feet per acre of wood fiber. If forested, the property will be
better utilized for natural resources, such as Christmas Trees, and Commercial Timber.

Section 11.05.02.02(b), Goal reads:

 To conserve and to manage efficiently the county's forest and range resources, thereby ensuring
 a sustained yield of forest products, adequate grazing areas for domestic livestock, habitat for
fish and wildlife, protection of forest soils and watershed, and preservation of recreational
opportunities.

The requested zone change will continue preservation of the forest and range resources currently
on the property, as described below.

B. The proposed designation shall be appropriate for the existing or intended use of the
property.

Regarding criterion (B), as mentioned above, the intended use of the property is timber
production.

C. The proposed amendment shall result in an area of at least      160 contiguous acres with the
requested designation, including adjacent land.

Regarding criterion (C),the adjoining property to the west is zoned F-80, has a
Comprehensive Plan designation of CF, and comprises over 400 acres. Therefore, after
the requested amendment, there will be well over 160 contiguous acres of property zoned
F-80, with a Comprehensive Plan designation of CF. This is over the 160-acres required;
therefore, the request is consistent with criterion (C).

D. For proposed changes within or to an Exclusive Farm Use designation, the new minimum
lot size shall be appropriate to maintain the existing commercial agricultural enterprise in the
area.

With regard to criterion D, the property is currently zoned in an Exclusive Farm Use, EF-80
designation. The request is to change the zoning to Forestry Large Holding (F-80), and so the
proposed zone change will not increase, nor decrease the minimum lot size. The existing
commercial agricultural enterprise in the area will not be affected, therefore the proposed change
complies with criterion (D).

KE. For proposed changes within or to an Agriculture/Forestry designation, the new minimum
lot size shall be shown to assure:

                                                   -2-                                      B.O. 26-095
1, The opportunity for economically efficient forest and agriculture practices typically
occurring in the area; and

2. The opportunity for the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree species; and

3. The conservation of other forest values found on forest lands.

Regarding criterion (E), the owner intends to increase the existing forest holding on this property.
The Yamhill County soil map shows that the majority of this property (approximately 17.9 acres)
is composed of soils capable of producing 125 cubic feet per acre of wood fiber. The property is
currently partially forested and is planned to be further forested.

F. Any amendment that would change the zone map designation to reduce the minimum lot
size on property within an Exclusive Farm Use or Agriculture/Forestry district shall not be
granted final approval by Yamhill County until the amendment has been considered and
approved by the Land Conservation and Development Commission pursuant to ORS
215.780(2). The following rules shall apply:

I. Conditional approval. Following receipt of an application for a zone change as otherwise
provided by this ordinance, the county shall determine whether to grant or deny the
application in accordance with criteria established in this section 1208.03. If the application is
granted, the county shall enter an order of conditional approval, subject to final approval by
the Land Conservation and Development Commission.

2. Referral of Order of Conditional Approval. After conditional approval by Yamhill County,
the application, county findings, order of conditional approval and a request for Commission
action shall be referred to the Department of Land Conservation and Development.

3. Final Approval. An amendment conditionally approved by Yamhill County shall not take
effect until the county adopts an order or ordinance authorizing final approval after receipt of
written confirmation of the county's conditional approval by the Land Conservation and
Development Commission.

Approval of the applicant’s request does not result in an increase or decrease in the minimum lot
size. Criterion (F) is not applicable to this application.

C.   Oregon Administrative Rule 660-06 Provisions and Analysis

Approval of the requested zone change is based on compliance with the review criteria found in
Section 660-06 of the Oregon Administrative Rules, as follows:

OAR-660-06-0010(2) - Identifying Forest Land - reads:

(2) Where a plan amendment is proposed:

(a) Lands suitable for commercial forest uses shall be identified using a mapping of average

                                                 -3-                                         B.O. 26-095
annual wood production capability by cubic foot per acre (cf/ac) as reported by the USDA
Natural Resources Conservation Service. Where NRCS data are not available or are shown to
be inaccurate, other site productivity data may be used to identify forest land, in the following
order of priority:

(A) Oregon Department of Revenue western Oregon site class maps;

(B) USDA Forest Service plant association guides; or

(C) Other information determined by the State Forester to be of comparable quality.

(b) Where data of comparable quality under paragraphs (2)(a)(A) through (© are not
available or are shown to be inaccurate, an alternative method for determining productivity
may be used as described in the Oregon Department of Forestry's Technical Bulletin entitled
"Land Use Planning Notes, Number 3April 1998, Updated for Clarity April 2010."

(c) Counties shall identify forest lands that maintain soil air, water and fish and wildlife
resources.

The information provided by the applicant and soil maps compiled from data from the USDA,
and USGS show that much of the property is composed of soils capable of producing 125 cubic
feet per acre of wood fiber which is suitable for commercial forest uses.

OAR-660-06-0015(2) - Plan Designation Outside an Urban Growth Boundary- reads:

(2) When lands satisfy the definition requirements of both agricultural land and forest land,
an exception is not required to show why one resource designation is chosen over another.
The plan need only document the factors that were used to select an agricultural, forest,
agricultural/forest, or other appropriate designation.

As addressed above, the subject property is currently planted with grass seed, hay, and trees but
is not used for any commercial purpose. The owner wishes to plant additional trees on the
property and is working to identify trees that would grow relatively well with the soils. Such
proposed use would be more productive and profitable use than is currently employed on site.

                                                -4-                                            B.O. 26-095
           EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 949
                         ZONE CHANGE
ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                          April 16, 2026
              FOR A PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
               Agriculture Forestry Large Holding
                                TO
                       Commercial Forestry
                               AND
                     ZONE CHANGE FROM
                    Exclusive Farm Use, EF-80
                                TO
                      Forestry District, F-8&0

                                                    4S 5W Seci3

                                                     4S 5W Sec24

   CHANGE APPLIES TO TAX LOT 4524-00702 AS HIGHLIGHTED ABOVE.

                                                                   B.O. 26-095