Film 92
         BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON                                      734

                                       FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

                   SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

Approval of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment and Zone Change                   )
from HI - Heavy Industrial to Commercial on a 3.36 Acre Parcel,              )     Ordinance 797
Docket PAZ-04-06, Applicant Julie Dean, Tax Lot 5632-1200,                   )
and Declaring an Emergency                                                   )

         THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the oard                            sat for
the transaction of county business November 29, 2006, Commissioners Leslie Lewis, Kathy George and
Mary P. Stern being present.

        IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that Julie Dean applied to the Yamhill County Department of
Planning (Planning Docket PAZ-04-06) for a Comprehensive Plan amendment and zone change, and

         IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that this matter was heard by the Yamhill County Planning
Commission at a duly noticed public hearing on October 5, 2006, after which the Commission voted to
recommend approving the application; the Board held a duly noticed public hearing November 8, 2006.
After due consideration of the Application (there being no opponents or objections), the Board
tentatively voted 3-0 to approve the Application, NOW, THEREFORE,

         IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as detailed in
the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit A and by this reference incorporated herein. This
ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an
emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage. A map of the area is appended as
Exhibit B.

DONE this 29th day of November, 2006, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST                                           YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
JAN COLEMAN                             sped                Ae            [x (osu
County Clerk                             got     OF Dy      i                LESLIE LEWIS

                                         eae)
Deputy Anne Britt

APPROVED ASTOFORM:                                       V\, \Qu          ) SA.
     4   “    g    Fon. ;                                Commissioner \      MARY P. STERN

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

\\Yam-main\Admin\Users\sanair\LU\DeanforthVersion.wpd

                                                                                      B.0+ ©Olo-UkS
                                                                                                         Film 92
                                                                                                         735

Findings for Approval

DOCKET NO.:              PAZ-04-06

REQUEST:                  For a Comprehensive Plan amendment from HI - Heavy Industrial to
                          Commercial for a 3.36 acre parcel.

APPLICANT:                Julie Dean

TAX LOT:                  5633-1200

LOCATION:                 32020 SW West Valley Highway, Sheridan, Oregon

CRITERIA:                 Sections 501, 701, 702, and 1208.02 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.
                          Section 904, Limited Use Overlay may also be applied. Comprehensive Plan
                          policies may be applicable. OAR 660-012-0060 Transportation Planning Rule

FINDINGS:

A. Background Facts

1.          Lot Size: 3.36 acres.

2.          Access:    West Valley Highway.

3.          On-Site Land Use:       The subject parcel is a site of an old lumber mill that was abandoned in
            1970s. The parcel is situated between Southern Pacific Railroad to the north and West
            Valley Highway to the south. The site is overgrown with brush, grass and trees which are
            mostly along the railroad right-of-way. There are two structures on the property that were
            left over from the lumber mill. One is an old shop building and the other served as an office
            building. A trucking company used the site from 1999 until 2002.

4.          Surrounding Land Use:       Land in the surrounding area contains rural residential, heavy
            industrial uses (i.e. lumber mills) and farm uses which include grass and livestock grazing.

3;          Surrounding Zoning: The parcels to the east and the west are zoned AF-10,
            Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding. Parcels to the north, across the railroad line, and to the
            south across West Valley Highway are zoned EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use.

6.          Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey indicates that approximately 64% of the soil on
            subject tract is Class II, Chehalem (CeC) high value farm land. Approximately 30% of the
            soil is Class I, Chehalis (Ch)), prime farmland and approximately 6% of the soil is Class VI,
            Willakenzie (WeF) non-high value soil.

hs          Taxes:    The tract is taxed as an industrial undeveloped property.

8.          Water:    Existing well.

9.          Sewage Disposal:     There is an existing septic system on Tax Lot 5633-1200.

                                                                                                  B.0-06-46S
                                                                                                       Film 92
                                                                                                       736

B. Ordinance Provisions and Analysis

L.           The request must comply with the standards and criteria in the Yamhill County Zoning
             Ordinance (YCZO) Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

      (A)      That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other applicable
               provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

      (B)      That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
               requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the economy
               of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and the availability
               and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the zone.

      (C)      That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
               density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have occurred in
               the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of utilities and
               services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.
      (D)      That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are either
               unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or other
               factors.

      (E)      That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
               exceptions, if applicable.

      These criteria are addressed, respectively, in Findings B.2 through B.6 below.

 Ze            As noted above, in 1979 the Yamhill County Board of Commissioners adopted Ordinance
               202 which took an exception to goal 3 and designated the property as HI Heavy Industrial
               use because it was physically developed in and irrevocably committed to non-farm uses.
               As noted above the subject parcel was a site of a (now defunct) lumber mill. The lumber
               mill was closed down in 1970s. Now the site is just a vacant lot. For a time between
               1999 and 2002 the site was used for a trucking operation. None of the uses proposed by
               the applicant are listed as permitted or conditional uses in the HI Heavy Industrial zoning
               district.   Therefore, the applicant is requesting to change the zone to LI Light Industrial
               use and AF-10 Agriculture/Forestry Small Holding. As noted in finding A.4 the
               surrounding area is in rural residential use, industrial use and farm use.

               Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.F.1.b. Yamhill County will
              encourage economic development projects which do not conflict with the predominant
              timber and agricultural character of the county.

               The applicant stated that the proposed use (horse boarding) is both appropriate and
              needed in the west valley area. The proposed use would be an asset to the surrounding
              agricultural area as well as the rural residential area. The proposed use is a type of
              business generally used by residents of agricultural and residential areas.

               Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.B.1.c. All proposed rural area
              development and facilities:
                                                                                             Film 92
                                                                                             737

 1)        Shall be appropriately, if not uniquely, suited to the area or site proposed for
development;

 2)        Shall not be located in any natural hazard area, such as a floodplain or area of
geologic hazard, steep slope, severe drainage problems or soil limitations for building or
sub-surface sewage disposal, if relevant;

 3)        Shall be furnished with adequate access and an adequate individual or
community water supply, if required; and shall not be justified solely or even primarily on
the argument that the land is less costly than alternative better sites or that federal or state
aid is available in the form of subsidized water supply or sewerage extensions from nearby
urban centers.

 The proposed use of the subject tract is appropriate for the proposed area. It is situated
between City of Sheridan and the City of Willamina.       It is also situated in an area bound by
railroad tracks on the north side and a State highway to the south. It is located in an area
that is mix of agricultural, industrial and rural residential use. The subject tract is not in a
floodplain or any other hazard area. The subject tract has a direct access onto the State
Highway. All utilities are present and so is the infrastructure.

 Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.B.1.d. No proposed rural area
development shall require or substantially influence the extension of costly services and
facilities normally associated with urban centers, such as municipal water supply and
sanitary sewerage or power, gas and telephone services, nor shall it impose inordinate
additional net costs on mobile, centralized public services, such as police and fire
protection, school busing or refuse collection.

 The above policy was addressed in the paragraph above..

 Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy L.H.1.b,        To the greatest extent
possible, industrial areas will be located within urban growth boundaries.      Those industrial
areas located outside urban growth boundaries will be compatible with the industrial
development goal and will be located where they can be adequately served by necessary
major utility lines, including electric power substations and transmission lines, trunk sewer
lines, trunk water lines, and where appropriate, trunk gas lines.

 The subject tract is already plan designated for industrial use.

 Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.H.1.c,        Industrial uses which are
incompatible with surrounding residential or commercial development and cannot bear the
cost of abating their incompatible characteristics, whether related to performance or
appearance, will be encouraged to locate or relocate only within urban centers, where
contact with residential development is, or will be at a minimum, and where all required
services are immediately available.

 The proposed use (equine accessories sales and service operation) is very low impact.          It
does not generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor, electrical interference or other
disturbance beyond what normally occurs in the applicable zoning district. The only
significant impact might be the traffic. The applicant will have to contact ODOT for all
appropriate permits.
                                                                                              Film 92
                                                                                              738

        Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LH.1.f, The county will develop
       appropriate performance, design and specification standards and requirements for all
       existing and possible future industrial uses to guide their location or relocation in the
       county and within existing industrial areas of the county.

        The County has developed design standards which would be applied at the time the
       applicant applies for the Site Design Review.

        Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy LH.1.J,      Industrial development will
       utilize the transportation system in an efficient and safe manner and reduce energy
       consumption by identifying for industrial development areas with alternative transportation
       opportunities, and by locating employment opportunities close to public transportation and,
       where appropriate, in community areas.
        The proposed use is located next to the State Highway half way between City of Sheridan
       and the City of Willamina. The applicant indicated that the proposed use should generate
       5 to 10 new employment opportunities for the local area.

        Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies - Policy I.H.1.n The county will recognize
       and encourage small scale industries as viable alternatives to larger, conventional
       enterprises.

        The proposed use is small scale when comparing it to the other industrial uses in the area..

         Regarding the need for the proposed use, criterion (B), the applicant did not submit a full
      market study. However, the applicant did indicate that all facilities in the eastern portion of
      the county do not have any available space.

      Regarding criterion 1208.02 (C), the surrounding property consists of small scale farm uses
       and rural residential areas. Approval of this zone change would allow establishment of a
       very similar and compatible use to farm and rural residential uses in the surrounding area.
       The surrounding properties are zoned EF-80 Exclusive Farm, AF-10 and HI. This
       conversion would be consistent with the surrounding property zoning. Regarding the need
       for utilities and services, the property already has a well and septic system for a single
       family residence.   Water is provided by an on-site well. Access is by State Highway.

      Regarding criterion 1208.02 (D), there is very limited amount of land zoned LI in the
       County. And none is available in the western portion of the county. The AF-10 is more
       prevalent; however, the combination of LI and AF-10 that the applicant desires is
       nonexistent.

      Regarding criterion 1208.02 (E), no exception is required.

      Goal 12 (Transportation Rule) Provisions and Analysis

      The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must be
       addressed. OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

(1)   Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and land use
       regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall assure that allowed land
       uses are consistent with the identified function, capacity, and level of service of the
                                                                                                Film 92
                                                                                                739

              facility.

Zs           As noted above, approval of the request would restrict the use of the property to light
              industrial and rural residential uses, which does not involve movement of heavy machinery
              and large commercial truck traffic. Therefore, the proposed uses are not as traffic
              intensive as heavy industrial uses. The proposal will be subject to ODOT permitting
              process.

CONCLUSION:

The request complies with the Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies. The requested use is appropriate
             for the area considering the level of services needed and available, and considering
              surrounding development.

  The request will comply with the Transportation Planning Rule if all permits from Oregon Department
                 of Transportation are obtained. As noted above, approval of the request would restrict
                the use of the property to commercial and rural residential uses, which does not involve
                movement of heavy machinery and large commercial truck traffic. Therefore, the
                proposed uses are not as traffic intensive than heavy industrial uses. The proposal will
                be subject to the ODOT permitting process.

     End
Yamhill County Map
          —-_-
     oO
    ‘O

                       2;
     >
                 O
                 =

                       =

                                =U
                                U
                                0
                                O
                                U
                                m
                                —
                                                                               <
a

    Nea          wes

                                                                      i)           w>
                                             =e
                                             =                    1    ‘O=a

                            :          ELPHIAN    -_ )        y           oO       9A
                                       SCHOOL]    -      -/           8            <
                                                                                   on
                                                                                   « -

                                 SAVAGE:
                                . ROAD

                                                                                         B.8-06-465