Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 1013-1

This section and related information is available at www.co.yamhill.or.us/plan/planning/planning.asp

 SECTION 1013 B SPECIAL USE REQUIREMENTS

1013. AGRI-TOURISM USE PERMITS [Added 5/24/12; Ord. 871]

Agri-tourism and other commercial events or activities related to and supportive of agriculture may
be approved in an area zoned for exclusive farm use subject to the standards and criteria in this
section. Any permitted event or activity is personal to the applicant and is not transferred by, or
transferrable with, a conveyance of the tract.

1013.01 Standards and Criteria.

A. The following provisions shall apply to agri-tourism use permits:

1. One expedited, agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity on a tract may be
permitted in a calendar year subject to the following:

a. The event or activity is incidental and subordinate to existing farm use on the tract
and;

   b. Shall not begin before 6 a.m. or end after 10 p.m.;

   c. Shall not involve more than 100 attendees or 50 vehicles;

d. Shall not include the artificial amplification of music;

e. Shall occur outdoors, in temporary structures, or in existing permitted structures.
Shall not require or involve the construction, use or occupancy of a new permanent
structure in conjunction with the activity or event;

f. Shall be located on a tract of at least 10 acres unless the owners or residents of
adjoining properties consent, in writing, to the location; and

g. Shall comply with any applicable health and fire and life safety requirements.

An expedited, single event or activity is not a land use decision as defined in ORS 197.015
and, therefore, does not require public notice.

2.    In the alternative to 1 above, one agri-tourism or other commercial event or activity on
a tract may be permitted in a calendar year subject to the following:

 a. The event or activity is incidental and subordinate to existing farm use on the tract
and;

 b. Shall not exceed 72 consecutive hours;

 c. Maximum attendance shall not exceed 500 people;

 d. The maximum number of motor vehicles parked at the site shall not exceed 250;

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 1013-2

 e. May allow the artificial amplification of voice or music from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.;

 f. Shall comply with ORS 215.296;

 g. Shall occur outdoors, in temporary structures, or in existing permitted structures.
Shall not require or involve the construction, use or occupancy of a new permanent
structure in conjunction with the activity or event;

 h. Shall comply with any applicable health and fire and life safety requirements;

 i. Shall comply with any conditions established for hours of operation, access, egress
and parking, a traffic management plan that identifies the projected number of vehicles
and any anticipated use of public roads, and sanitation and solid waste.

3. In the alternative to 1 and 2 above, up to six events or activities on a tract may be
permitted in a calendar year subject to the following:

 a. The events or activities are incidental and subordinate to existing farm use on the
tract and;

   b. Shall not, individually, exceed 72 consecutive hours;

c. One of the six events may allow the artificial amplification of voice or music from 8
a.m. to 10 p.m.

   d. Shall comply with ORS 215.296;

e. Shall occur outdoors, in temporary structures, or in existing permitted structures.
Shall not require or involve the construction, use or occupancy of a new permanent
structure in conjunction with the activities or events;

f. Shall comply with any applicable health and fire and life safety requirements;

For convenience, ORS 215.296 requires the applicant to show that the use
will not:

“(a) Force a significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use; or

“(b) Significantly increase the cost of accepted farm of forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use”

For convenience, ORS 215.296 requires the applicant to show that the use
will not:

“(a) Force a significant change in accepted farm or forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use; or

“(b) Significantly increase the cost of accepted farm of forest practices on
surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use”

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 1013-3
g. Shall not, in combination with other agri-tourism or other commercial events or
activities authorized in the area, materially alter the stability of the land use pattern in
the area; and

h. Must comply with any conditions established for:

(i). The types of events or activities that are authorized during each calendar
year, including the number and duration of events and activities, the
anticipated daily attendance and the hours of operation;

(ii). The location of existing structures and the location of proposed temporary
structures to be used in connection with the events or activities;

(iii). The location of access and egress and parking facilities to be used in
connection with the events or activities;

(iv). Traffic management, including the projected number of vehicles and any
anticipated use of public roads; and

(v). Sanitation and solid waste.

i. Permits approved under this subsection expire one year from the date of approval but
may be renewed for four-year periods subject to an application for renewal and
demonstration of compliance with conditions of approval and the standards of this
subsection.

4. In the alternative to 1, 2 and 3 above, up to 18 events on a tract may be permitted in a
calendar year subject to the following:

 a. The events or activities are incidental and subordinate to existing commercial farm
use of the tract and are necessary to support the commercial farm uses or the
commercial agricultural enterprises in the area and;

   b. Shall comply with Section 1013.01 (A) (3) (b) through (h) above;

c. Shall occur on a lot or parcel that complies with the acknowledged minimum lot or
parcel size;

d. Permits approved under this subsection expire one year from the date of approval;

e. Such permits may be renewed at four year intervals subject to:

 (i). An application for renewal;

 (ii). Public notice and public comment as part of the review process; and

(iii). Demonstration of compliance with conditions of approval and the
standards of this subsection.

  5.  Overnight camping may be allowed for the duration of the one yearly activity or event
approved under Section 1013.01(A)(2), (3) or (4).  Applications involving overnight
camping shall be subject to the Type B procedures set forth in Section 1301.

 Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance   Page 1013-4

  6.  Temporary structures authorized under this Section shall be removed at the end of the
activity or event. Additionally, no alteration of the land shall be allowed in connection
with an activity or event authorized under this Section, including but not limited to,
grading, filling or paving.

  7.  The events and activities permitted in this Section are in addition to other
authorizations that may be provided by law, except that outdoor mass gathering and
other gatherings, as those terms are used in ORS 197.015 (10)(d), do not include agri-
tourism or other commercial events or activities.

1013.02    APPLICATION PROCESS

Applications filed under Section 1013.01 (A)(2) and (3) shall be subject to the Type A application
 procedure set forth in Section 1301. Applications filed under Section 1013.01 (A)(4) shall be subject
 to the Type B procedure set forth in Section 1301.