Zoning Ordinance
Section 1005.00 - Solid Waste Disposal Facilities

1005.01  Standards and Requirements
The following standards and requirements shall apply to all applications to site a solid
waste disposal facility.

A.  The application shall be processed pursuant to Subsection 1301 Type C
procedures.
B.  The application shall include a written justification for the request pursuant to the
conditional use provisions of Subsections 1202.02 .
C.  The application shall include a preliminary site plan pursuant to Section 1101 ,
Site Design Review.
D.  The application shall include information as needed to determine potential effect:
1.  That birds attracted to the site might have on full-service or limited use
airports or approach patterns.

2.  That leachate might have on area aquifers or recharge areas.

3.  That the operation might have on or how it might be affected by area
floodplains, and other ground and surface water conditions, and
geological/soil characteristics.
4.  That the operation might have on or be affected by site vegetation, wildlife
habitat or other environmental, archeological, historical or similar resource
considerations.
5.  That the operation might have on surrounding land uses within 1/2 mile of
the disposal operation.
E.  Provisions shall be made to insure that site access and roadway conditions are
adequate for the traffic to the site.
F.  The operational plan shall be approved by DEQ, and will be reviewed by the
county to insure that all local compatibility issues are resolved. Such operational
plan shall include but not be limited to the following provisions:
1.  Site analysis
2.  Volume/capacity analysis
3.  Waste stream/refuse generator analysis

4.  Operational financial analysis
1005.02  Final Site Design Review and Operational Requirements
The applicant shall provide the following:
A.  A final site plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 1101  of the zoning
ordinance, together with the following:
1.  Site operational provisions in an outlined format that indicates both work
to be performed and frequency of application.

2.  Financial data demonstrating ability to complete the work.

3.  Evidence of bondability to 150% of the proposed site development costs
and operational cost for a one-year period.
B.  Evidence of DEQ review and preliminary site approval for a solid waste disposal
facility.
C.  Evidence of the ability to satisfy the requirements for issuance of a solid waste
disposal franchise in accordance with the requirements of the Yamhill County
Solid Waste and Collection Ordinance, No. 154, Section 9.05, Disposal Franchise
Requirements.
D.  Such other information or provisions as are required as a condition of preliminary
approval.

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page