Zoning Ordinance
Section 906.00 - Scenic Waterway Overlay District (SW)
[Adopted 12/29/93, Ord. 566]

906.01 Purpose
The purpose of the Scenic Waterway Overlay District is to reflect the designation of
Oregon Scenic Waterways on the Official County Zoning Map. Additionally, the Overlay
describes the review process administered by the State Parks and Recreation Department
under the Scenic Waterways Act (ORS 390.805-390.925 ).
906.02 Area of Application
The Scenic Waterway Overlay District applies only to river segments included within the
Oregon Scenic Waterways system. Under the provisions of Oregon Revised Statutes, a
scenic waterway includes the river and its shoreline and all land and tributaries within
one-quarter mile of its banks. The boundaries of the Scenic River Overlay to the Yamhill
County Zoning Map are defined to correlate with the boundaries established by the State
Parks and Recreation Department.
906.03 Prohibited Uses
To protect the free-flowing character of designated rivers for fish, wildlife and recreation,
the Scenic Waterways Act specifically prohibits placer mining and construction of dams,
reservoirs, or impoundments within scenic waterways. This statutory prohibition takes
precedence over the permitted and conditional uses listed in the underlying zone.
906.04 Allowed Uses
Uses that are not specifically prohibited under the Scenic Waterways Act are allowed as
provided in the underlying zone, subject to a notification and review procedure
administered by the State Parks and Recreation Department.
906.05 Review Procedure
A.  Property owners wishing to build roads or houses, develop mines, cut timber or
make other proposed changes within one-quarter mile of each side of a designated
scenic waterway must notify the State Parks and Recreation Department in
advance. Within one year of notification, State Parks and Recreation must decide
if a proposed change will affect the scenic beauty of the river. The Scenic
Waterways Act allows the Parks and Recreation Commission to purchase land or
timber if impairment of a river's scenic qualities cannot be prevented by any other
means.
B.  Yamhill County will not accept a land use application for a use within the Scenic
Waterway Overlay District until the State Parks Department notification and
review process is completed.

Return to the top of the document
Zoning Table of Contents
Main Planning Page