IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                              FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL

               SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the
Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan (1974)
Map from “VLDR” (Very Low Density)

                                                     a
Residential to “AFLH” (Agriculture Forestry
Large Holding), Amending the Official Zoning                         ORDINANCE 671

                                                     ee
Map from “VLDR-2.5" to “EF-80” (Exclusive
Farm Use), Approving a Conditional Use
and Site Design Review to Allow Expansion
of a Grass Seed Storage Business Operating as a
Commercial Activity in Conjunction With Farm
Use; Approving a Partition to Divide a 2.5 Acre
                                                     eee

Lot from Tax Lot 3421-1400, and Approving
a Lot Line Adjustment to Combine a 2.5 Acre
Lot with 2.75 Acres From an Adjacent Parcel;
Tax Lots 3421-702,    1400 and 1800;
Applicant Madsen Grain Co.; Planning
Docket PAZ-02-99, C-04-99, SDR-08-99,
                                                     Nee

P-07-99, and L-15-99; and Declaring an
Emergency.

        THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS              OF YAMHILL COUNTY,           OREGON      (the Board)
‘sat for the transaction of county business in special session on June   10, 1999,   Commissioners
Robert Johnstone, Ted Lopuszynski, and Thomas E. E. Bunn being present.

        WHEREAS, on April 6, 1999, the Department of Planning and Development received an
application by Madsen Grain Co. ("applicant") for a comprehensive plan map amendment from
“VLDR" (Very Low Density Residential) to “AFLH” (Agriculture Forestry Large Holding) and
a zone change from “VLDR-2.5" to “EF-80” (Exclusive Farm Use) on a 2.5 acre portion of Tax
Lot 3421-1400, a conditional use and site design review to allow expansion of a grass seed storage
business operating as a commercial activity in conjunction with farm use on Tax Lots 3421-702,
1400 and 1800, a partition to divide a 6.6 acre parcel (Tax Lot 3421-1400) into a 4.1 acre parcel
(Parcel 1) and a 2.5 acre parcel (Parcel 2) and a lot line adjustment to combine the 2.5 acre parcel
in Tax Lot 3241-1400 with portions of Tax Lots 3241-702 and 1800, Planning Docket PAZ-02-
99, C-04-99, SDR-08-99, P-07-99 and L-15-99; and

                                                                                     BO-94
                                                                                        - 3193
                                                                                     ORDINANCE 671
                                                                                              Page 1
       WHEREAS, on May 6, 1999, the Planning Commission held a public hearing to consider
the application and thereafter voted 5-0 to recommend approval of the request; and

        WHEREAS, on May 27, 1999, the Board held a public hearing on the application, and
following the close of the hearing, voted unanimously to tentatively approve the plan amendment,
zone change, lot line adjustment, conditional use,    partition, and site design review; and

       WHEREAS,      the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit “A" and incorporated
herein by this reference provide justification for approval of the application, and that approval
thereof is in the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill County;   Now   Therefore,

       THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

        Section 1. The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan Map (1974), as amended, is hereby
amended to reflect a plan designation of “AFLH” (Agriculture Forestry Large Holding) on a 2.5
acre portion of Tax Lot 3421-1400, as more particularly shown on the map attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit "B."

        Section 2.     The Official Zoning Map, as amended, is hereby amended to reflect a zoning
designation of “EF-80” (Exclusive Farm Use) on a 2.5 acre portion of Tax Lot 3421-1400, as more
particularly shown on the map attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "B."

        Section3.    The request for a conditional use and for site design review on Tax Lots 3421-
702, 1400 and 1800 to allow construction of an additional storage building for the existing grass
seed storage business which is operating as a commercial activity in conjunction with farm use, are
approved. subject to the following conditions:

        1.     All permits required by Yamhill County for building construction and electrical
               installation shall be obtained.

       2.      The storage building shall be constructed to substantially conform to the preliminary
               site plan. Any significant change in the site plan may require an additional site
               design review approval.

       Section 4.   The request for preliminary partition to divide a 6.6 acre parcel (Tax Lot 3421-
1400) into a 4.1 acre parcel (Parcel 1) and a 2.5 acre parcel (Parcel 2) and for a lot line adjustment
to combine the 2.5 acre parcel in Tax Lot 3241-1400 with portions of Tax Lots 3241-702 and 1800
( resulting in an adjusted Parcel 2 of approximately 5.29 acres), are approved, as more particularly
shown, on the map attached hereto and incorporated herein as Exhibit "B", subject to the following
conditions:

        1.     Prior to final partition approval, a survey of Parcels 1 and the adjusted Parcel 2 shall
               be completed by a registered land surveyor pursuant to Section 6.120 of the Yamhill
               County   Land Division    Ordinance.     The   final partition plat shall substantially

                                                                                     ORDINANCE 671
                                                                                                Page 2
               conform to the preliminary map.        The property line adjustments shall be clearly
               indicated on the face of the final plat. The Yamhill County Planning Docket
               Number "P-07-99" shall appear on the face of the plat.

       2.      Parcel 2 (5.29 acres) shall be served by a 30 foot (minimum) nonexclusive easement
               for ingress and egress.     The easement shall be assigned from a public right-of-way
               to the parcel.      The easement shall be surveyed and shown on the face of the final
               plat.   The access shall be constructed, or a road construction agreement shall be
               completed and recorded, prior to final plat approval. The access shall be capable
               of meeting minimum requirements for access by fire protection equipment.

       3.      Prior to final approval, each lot shall be shown to have an adequate quantity and
               quality of water.     Either certification shall be provided that water will be provided
               to the parcel line of each lot by a municipal or community water system, or
               domestic water shall be provided to each lot by an on-site well or wells, with the
               location of the well(s) indicated on the face of the plat, or the following disclosure
               shall be placed on the plat:

                        No municipal, public utility, community water supply
                       or private system will be provided to the purchaser of
                       those lots noted hereon.

               Each lot not provided with a well or community service shall be so identified.

       4.      The metes and bounds descriptions of each created lot shall be submitted with the
               final plat. All existing structures shall meet the minimum setback requirements of
               30 feet from all new property lines.

       5.      Parcel 1 shall have an existing septic system evaluation approved.        Any repairs to
               the system must be completed prior to final partition approval.

       Section 5.       The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference
are hereby adopted in support of this ordinance.

                                                                                      ORDINANCE 671
                                                                                                 Page 3
       Section 6.     Emergency Clause. This ordinance being necessary for the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill County, and an emergency having been declared to exist,
is effective upon passage.                                                        ;

       DONE     at McMinnville, Oregon this 10th day of June, 1999.

ATTEST        sass                   YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

                                          Behr
                                             t O
                                     Chairman          CG ROBERT JOHNSTONE

                                           howe            €.€..
                                     Commissioner         THOMAS E.E. BUNN

JOHN C. PINKSTAFF                    Commissioner’      (TED LQPUSZYNSKI
Assistant County Counsel

F;\ADMIN\PINKSTI\LU\PAZ0299.
                          WPD
                                                                   Accepted by Yamhill County
                                                                   Board of Commissioners on
                                                                  $   =(2-4           by Board Order .
                                                                   e497 ~ 343

                                                                                 ORDINANCE 671
                                                                                                Page 4
                                    ORDINANCE 671

                                        EXHIBIT "A"
PLANNING COMMISSION'S APPROVAL:                         . May 6, 1999

BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS'             APPROVAL:             June 10, 1999

DOCKET NO.:          PAZ-02-99, C-04-99, SDR-08-99, P-07-99, L-15-99

REQUEST:             A request for a comprehensive plan map amendment from "VLDR"
                     (Very Low Density Residential) to "AFLH" (Agriculture Forestry Large
                     holding) and a zone change from "VLDR-2.5" to "EF-80" (Exclusive
                   . Farm Use) on a 2.5 acre portion of Tax Lot 3421-1400, a conditional use
                     and site design review to allow expansion of a grass seed storage
                     business operating as a commercial activity in conjunction with farm use
                     on Tax Lots 3421-702, 1400 and 1800, a partition to divide a 6.6 acre
                     parcel (Tax Lot 3421-1400) into a 4.1 acre parcel (Parcel 1) and a 2.5
                     acre parcel (Parcel 2) and a lot line adjustment to combine the 2.5 acre
                     parcel in tax lot 3241-1400 with portions of tax lots 3241-702 and 1800.
                     When applications are approved, Madsen Grain Company will acquire a
                     5,29-acre parcel containing the existing business, and construct an
                     additional storage building.

APPLICANT:           Madsen Grain Co.

OWNER:               Sitton Brothers, Inc.

. TAX LOT:           3421-702, 1400 and 1800

LOCATION:            North of Meadow Lake Road, just west of Carlton.

CRITERIA:            Sections 402, 1101, 1202 and 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning
                     Ordinance and the Yamhill County Land Division Ordinance.
                     Comprehensive Plan policies may also be applicable.
FINDINGS:

Aw     Background Facts:

1.     Property size: Approximately 5.29 acres. The plan amendment and zone change is
       proposed on approximately 2.79 acres. The following findings focus on the proposed
       5.29 acre parcel which contains the seed cleaning business.

                                                                               Ordinance 671
                                                                                  Exhibit "A"
                                                                                        Page 1
      Access: Meadow Lake Road, a paved county road           .

      On-site Land Use: The area containing the existing grain operation is asphalted and
      contains outbuildings associated with the seed cleaning business

      Surrounding Land Use: The property to the south is in rural residential use. Property
      to the east, across the flood plain of the North Yamhill River, is inside the city limits of
      Carlton. The remainder of the surrounding area contains farm uses which include grain
      production.

      Surrounding Zoning: The property to the north and east is zoned EF-80 Exclusive
      Farm use. Property to the south and west is zoned VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density
      Residential.                                                                    :

      Water: No additional supply needed.

      Sewage Disposal: None proposed, a septic tank is the only option.

      Fire Protection: Carlton Rural Fire District

      Soils: Sheet 19 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the site is predominantly
      composed of Woodburn silt loam soils (WuB).          This soil is Class II, and is high-value
      farmland.      The edge of the property that contains the steeper slopes is classified as
      terrace escarpments (Te), which is rated as Class VI.

10.   Taxes: Farm deferral.

11.   Previous Actions: In 1994 the property received approval for a site design review,
      conditional use and flood plain approval (Docket SDR-4-95/C-6-94/CFP-2-94) to allow
      construction of an additional storage building.

12.   Flood plain: Flood Insurance Rate Map 410249 -0137 and -141 indicate that the
      property is within the flood plain. The property in the flood plain is within what is
      called the generalized flood elevation area. This means that no detailed study has been
      done to determine the flood elevation. The closest elevation is located 1,000 feet to the
      south and shows the flood plain at 131 foot elevation. The applicant has submitted a
      statement from a surveyor that indicates the property is at 137.2 foot elevation.

      Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis
a

      Approval of a request for a zone change must be based on compliance with the
      standards and criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02.         These provisions are:

                                                                                      Ordinance 671
                                                                                         Exhibit "A"
                                                                                              Page 2
(A)     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other
        applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

(B)     There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
        requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
        economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy,
        and the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for
        the uses allowed by the zone.                            ;

(C)   | The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
        density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
        occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability
        of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the
        proposed district.

(D)   — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
        unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size,
        or other factors.

(E)     The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for ~
        exceptions, if applicable.

The Board finds that the request is consistent with the goals, policies, and any other —
applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan and therefore satisfies YCZO
1208.02(A) as follows. The goals and policies regarding rural area development and
agricultural uses are written from the context of protecting agricultural land from being
rezoned to-a rural residential use. However, plan goals and policies which may be
pertinent are:

Section I, B. Rural Area Development, Goal 1 directs the county:

        To provide an adequate amount of land, development areas and sites to
        accommodate those uses which are customarily found in rural areas or require
        or are better suited to rural locations, without compromising the basic goal
        relating to urban containment and orderly urban development.

From the context of the Rural Area Development section, the development that is
referred to is predominantly rural residential. This goal statement directs the county to
maintain an adequate amount of land to provide for rural residential development. The
approximate amount of land that will be removed from VLDR 2.5 acre zoning is
approximately 2.5 acres. Rezoning of this property will result in a loss of one
homesite. Yamhill County has several thousand acres zoned for rural residential use.

                                                                             Ordinance 671
                                                                                Exhibit "A"
                                                                                      Page 3
  The loss of one potential homesite is not a significant reduction in the amount of rural
  residential land that is available for development.

  Section II, Agricultural Goal 1, policy a. states:

          Yamhill County will provide for the preservation of farm lands through
          appropriate zoning, recognizing comparative economic returns to agriculture
          and alternative uses, changing ownership patterns and management practices,
          changing market conditions for agricultural produce, and various public
         financial incentives.

  There is a seed cleaning facility on one of the subject tax lots.   The plan amendment
  and zone change will allow for an additional area zoned and plan designated for farm
  use. The additional area will be used as a storage facility for the seed cleaning
  operation.   The applicant has indicated the additional storage is needed for the grass
  seed. Encouraging farm uses and supporting commercial uses in conjunction with farm
  use is consistent with the agricultural goal.

  The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses
  allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry
  or the economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy,
  and the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses
  allowed by the zone, as required by YCZO 1208.02(B) as follows. The applicants
  received approval for construction of an additional storage building in 1994. In the
  application it states that farm use in the area is growing and the existing facility has
  been at capacity the past few years. Expansion of the existing facility is necessary to
  fulfill the market demand in the area. Although there is other property in the area that
- is already zoned EF-80, the subject parcel is next to the existing seed cleaning
  operation, making it most suitable for the proposed use.

  The Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding
  land uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may
  have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
  utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district,
  as required by, YCZO 1208.02(C). The subject property is currently surrounded by EF-
  80 Exclusive Farm use and VLDR 2.5 Very Low Density Residential zoning. Both of
  these zones allow farm uses. The rural residential uses exist to the southwest of the
  subject property. The grass cleaning facility has:already been established and has been
  in use for a number of years. The request is ultimately to construct an additional
  storage warehouse. To date there have been no objections to the proposed use. The
  warehouse is to be located near the north end of the property, away from the rural
  residential zone. The proposed zone change is appropriate to allow this use considering

                                                                              Ordinance 671
                                                                                 Exhibit "A"
                                                                                        Page 4
     the surrounding land uses and density and pattern of development. Regarding
     availability of utilities and services, no additional services are expected to be required
     on the site for the warehouse.

     The Board finds that other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses
     are either unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size,
     or other factors, as required by YCZO     1208.02(D). As noted in Finding B.3 above,
     although there is other property in the area that is already zoned EF-80, the subject
     parcel is next to the existing seed cleaning operation. Therefore, other property is not
     as well suited for the anticipated use due to its location.

     Regarding YCZO 1208.02(E), no exception is required.

     Conditional Use Criteria and Analysis
pf

     Conditional use criteria in Section 1202.02 are as follows:

     (A)    ‘The use is listed as a conditional use in the underlying zoning district;

     (B)    The use is consistent with those goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan
            which apply to the proposed use;

     (C)    The parcel is suitable for the proposed use considering its size, shape, location,
            topography, existence of improvements, and natural features.                     “

     (PD)   The proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding area in a
            manner which substantially limits, impairs, or prevents the use of surrounding
            properties for the permitted uses listed in the underlying zoning district.

     (E)     The proposed use is appropriate, considering the adequacy of the public
            facilities and services existing or planned for the area affected; and .

     (F)    The use is or can be made compatible with existing uses and other allowable
            uses in the area.

     Conditional use approval criteria in Section 402.07{A) are as follows:

     A,     In the Exclusive Farm     Use District, prior to establishment of a conditional use,
            the applicant shall demonstrate compliance with the following criteria in
            addition to other applicable provisions of this ordinance.

                                                                                 Ordinance 671
                                                                                    Exhibit "A"
                                                                                          Page 5
        I,     The use will not force significant change in accepted farming or forest
               practices on surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use.

       2.       The use will not significantly increase the cost of accepted farming or
               forest practices on lands devoted to farm or forest use.

These requirements are considered in Findings C.3 through C.9, below.

The Board finds that the use is listed as a conditional use in the underlying zoning
district, as required by YCZO 1202.02(A). Section 402.10(B)(1) definition of
Commercial Activities in Conjunction with Farm Use includes the “processing,
packaging and wholesale distribution and storage of a product not derived primarily
from farm activities on the premises" (emphasis added). Section 402.04(G) lists
Commercial Activities in Conjunction with Farm Use as a conditional use.       The
construction of an additional storage warehouse is, therefore, a conditional use.

The Board finds that the use is consistent with those goals and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan which apply to the proposed use as required by YCZO
1202.02(B). As long as the use is a commercial activity in conjunction with farm use,
with the limitation described above, the request would be consistent with the goals and
policies of the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan related to agricultural use.

The Board finds that the proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding
area in a manner which substantially limits, impairs, or prevents the use of surrounding
properties for the permitted uses listed in the underlying zoning district as required by
YCZO 1202.02(C). Regarding suitability of the parcel for an additional storage .
building, the only limitation to construction of such a use would be the flood plain
overlay district. No other physical limitations of the site have been identified. The
applicant has submitted a statement from a surveyor that the property is above the
identified flood plain.

The Board finds that the proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding
area in a manner which substantially limits, impairs, or prevents the use of surrounding
properties for the permitted uses listed in the underlying zoning district as required by
YCZO 1202.02(D). The character of the area is predominantly agricultural. The seed
cleaning operation is already existing. An additional storage building should not cause
any greater interference with surrounding land uses. Since the seed cleaning operation
already exists, an additional storage building will be in character with the surrounding
area and will not substantially limit impair or prevent the use of surrounding properties
for permitted uses.                                                     ,

                                                                            Ordinance 671
                                                                               Exhibit "A"
                                                                                     Page 6
     The Board finds that the proposed use is appropriate, considering the adequacy. of the
     public facilities and services existing or planned for the area affected as required by
     YCZO    1202.02(E).   No additional public services are anticipated to be needed on-site.

     The Board finds that the existing and allowed uses in the area are primarily agricultural
     and rural residential as required by YCZO 1202.02(F). As stated above the storage
     building will be compatible with existing uses in the area.

     The Board finds that the request satisfies YCZO 402.07(A) requirements that (1) The
     use will not force significant change in accepted farming or forest practices on
     surrounding lands devoted to farm or forest use and (2) The use will not significantly
     increase the cost of accepted farming or forest practices on lands devoted to farm or
     forest use. The use has already existed for a number of years and therefore the
     proposed use will not cause any significant change or increased costs to surrounding
     farm practices.

     Site Design Review Criteria
iy

     YCZO Section 1101.01(A) for Site Design Review requires consideration of the
     following factors in the review of site development plans:

     (1)    Characteristics of adjoining and surrounding uses;

     (2)    Economic factors related to the proposed use;

     (3)    Traffic safety, internal circulation and parking:

     (4)    Provision for adequate noise and/or visual buffering from incompatible uses;

     (5)    Retention of existing natural features on site; and   .

     (6)    Problems that may arise due to development within potential hazard areas.

     (7)    Comments and/or recommendations of adjacent and vicinity property owners
            whose interests may be affected by the proposed use.

     The Board finds that the characteristics of adjoining and surrounding uses which are
     agricultural and rural residential have been adequately addressed as required by YCZO
     1101.01(A)(1).   The seed cleaning facility is already established and therefore the
     effects on the surrounding area, to a large degree, already exist.

                                                                               Ordinance 671
                                                                                  Exhibit "A"
                                                                                            Page 7
The Board finds that the economic factors related to the proposed use have been
adequately addressed as required by YCZO 1101.01(A)(2) There have been no
economic factors that have been identified that prevent the expansion.

The Board finds that the traffic safety, internal circulation and parking have been
adequately addressed as required by YCZO 1101.01(A)(3).            Regarding traffic, the
applicant states that there will be no significant additional traffic generated from the
construction of this building since it will only be used for storage. The parcel has large
areas asphalted that can be used to provide parking and internal circulation. Concerning
parking, YCZO 1007.02 requires one parking space for every 2,000 square feet of
storage area. Since the proposal is to build (50 x 90) 4,500 square feet of additional
storage, two additional parking spaces would be required. As indicated above; the
surfaced area should provide more than enough room for parking.

The Board finds that provision for adequate noise and/or visual buffering from
incompatible uses have been adequately addressed as required by YCZO
1101.01(A)(4). Noise on the site is already existing from the seed cleaning facility.
The addition of the storage building should not create additional noise beyond what is
already occurring on-site. No additional noise buffering shall be required. The
location of the building is on the northern end of the parcel away from the rural
residential zone. No additional visual buffering will be required for this location.

The Board finds that retention of existing natural features on site have been adequately
addressed as required by YCZO 1101.01(A)(5). There are no significant natural
features on-site that need to be preserved.

The Board finds that problems that may arise due to development within potential
hazard areas have been adequately addressed as required by YCZO 1101.01(A)(6).
The property is identified as being in the flood plain overlay district. However, the
applicant has submitted a statement from a surveyor that appears to show the property
is elevated out of the flood plain. Additionally there is a previous statement in the file
from an engineer that indicates the flood elevation at the subject property is 133 feet.
The surveyors information shows the building site at 137.2 feet.    Therefore, the
property is not within the flood hazard area.

The Board finds that comments and/or recommendations of adjacent and vicinity
property owners whose interests may be affected by the proposed use have been
adequately addressed as required by YCZO 1101.01(A)(7). No written comments
have been received from neighboring property owners. Favorable comments received
from the OSU Extension Service included estimates of agricultural production and
value of farm sales in Yamhill County for 1998.

                                                                           Ordinance 671
                                                                              Exhibit "A"
                                                                                    Page 8
=    Partition and Lot Line Adjustments

     Section 402.09(B)(2) of the YCZO lists the following requirements for lot-line
     adjustments:

     Any parcels subject to an alteration in size through a lot-line adjustment shall be shown
     to be of a size at least as appropriate to maintain the existing commercial agricultural
     enterprise in the area as were the parcels prior to adjustment. When one or more
     parcels subject to a proposed adjustment are larger that the minimum lot size in the
     zone, the same number of parcels shall be as larger or larger than the minimum lot size
     after the adjustment.   When all parcels subject to the proposed adjustment are as large
     or larger than the minimum lot size in the zone, no parcel.shall be reduced below the
     applicable minimum lot size. The lot line adjustment shall not resuit in an increase in
     the potential number of dwellings on the parcels. When an area that contains an
     existing dwelling will be conveyed from one parcel (Parcel A) to the adjacent parcel
     (Parcel B), Parcel B must either receive land use approval for the dwelling under the
     terms of this ordinance, or, in the alternative, a deed affidavit shall be recorded by the
     owner of Parcel A prohibiting the establishment of any new principal dwellings on the
     adjusted parcel or parcels.

     The Board finds that the requirements of section 402.09(B)(2) are satisfied. No
     dwellings are being transferred and no parcel is over 80 acres. Therefore, findings
     regarding this aspect of the above criterion are not necessary. The resulting lots must
     be shown to be at least as appropriate to maintain the commercial farm use of the area.
     The adjustment will take away approximately 2.5 acres of agricultural land from a
     combined lot size of 38.6 acres. The newly created parcel would allow expansion of a
     commercial activity that helps to support farm use. Therefore, the resulting lots would
     be just as appropriate for farm use.

     Partition requirements are included as conditions of approval.

CONCLUSIONS FOR APPROVAL:

1.   The request is for a plan amendment and zone change from VLDR Very Low Density
     Residential to Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding and a zone change from VLDR 2.5
     Very Low Density Residential to Exclusive Farm Use.

     The proposed zone change is consistent with Comprehensive Plan goals and policies,
     and is appropriate because it contains a commercial activity in conjunction with farm
     use.

                                                                                Ordinance 671
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                         Page 9
3.      Based upon the above findings, the applicant has demonstrated that the request is
        consistent with Section 1208 of the Yamhill County Zoning Ordinance.

4.      The request for construction of an additional storage building satisfies the conditional
        usé and site design review standards in Sections 1202.02 and 1101.02.

DECISION:

Based on the above findings and conclusions for approval, the request by Madsen Grain
Company for a Comprehensive Plan map amendment and zone change to change a 2.5-acre
portion of Tax Lot 3421-1400 from Very Low Density Residential/VLDR-2.5 district to
Agriculture Forestry Large Holding/EF-80 Exclusive Farm Use district, is approved, and the
request for conditional use approval and site design review to allow the construction of an
additional storage building for the existing grass seed storage business which is operating as a
commercial activity in conjunction with farm use is approved subject to the following
conditions:

1.      All permits required by Yamhill County for building construction and electrical
        installation shall be obtained.

2.      The storage building shall be constructed to substantially conform to the preliminary
        site plan. Any significant change in the site plan may require an additional site design
        review approval.                                                 :

Finally, based on the findings and conclusions for approval, the partition request and the
request for a lot line adjustment is approved subject to the following conditions:

1.      Prior to final partition approval, a survey of Parcels 1 and the adjusted Parcel 2 shall be
        completed by a registered land surveyor pursuant to Section 6.120 of the Yamhill
        County Land Division Ordinance.       The final partition plat shall substantially conform to
        the preliminary map.      The property line adjustments shall be clearly indicated on the
        face of the final plat.   The Yamhill County Planning Docket Number "P-07-99" shall
        appear on the face of the plat.

2.      Parcel 2 (5.29 acres) shall be served by a 30 foot (minimum) nonexclusive easement for
        ingress and egress. The easement shall be assigned from a public right-of-way to the
        parcel.   The easement shall be surveyed and shown on the face of the final plat.      The
        access shall be constructed, or a road construction agreement shall be completed and
        recorded, prior to final plat approval. The access shall be capable of meeting minimum
        requirements for access by fire protection equipment.

                                                                                     Ordinance 671
                                                                                        Exhibit "A"
                                                                                            Page 10
3.   Prior to final approval, each lot shall be shown to have an adequate quantity and quality
     of water. Either certification shall be provided that water will be provided to the parcel
     line of each lot by a municipal or community water system, or domestic water shall be
     provided to each lot by an on-site well or wells, with the location of the well(s)
     indicated on the face of the plat, or the following disclosure shall be placed on the plat:

            No municipal, public utility, community water supply or private system will be
            provided to the purchaser of those lots noted hereon.

     Each lot not provided with a well or community service shall be so identified.

4.   The metes and bounds descriptions of each created lot shall be submitted with the final
     plat. Ail existing structures shall meet the minimum setback requirements of 30 feet -
     from all new property lines.

5.   Parcel 1 shall have an existing septic system evaluation approved.    Any repairs to the
     system must be completed prior to final partition approval.

F:\ADMIN\PINKSTI\LU\PAZ0299F. WPD

                                                                                Ordinance 671
                                                                                   Exhibit "A"
                                                                                       Page 11
                      EXHIBIT "B" FOR ORDINANCE NO. 671
                              PLAN AMENDMENT/ZONE CHANGE
                                  ADOPTED JUNE 10, 1999 BY
                       THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                      TO CHANGE THE PLAN DESIGNATION
                                             FROM VLDR TO AFLH
                                        AND THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
                                          _ FROM VLDR 2.5 TO EF-80

                                               NORTH

                                                                                                         “A
                                                                                                        \ 3%
                                                                                                          ca
                                                1500
                                 [300                                                                          -
                             I2Z00\ LI
                                               BS   \\     ‘?

                                                    1600
                            oy    S                                  7
                            O°         3
                                                1700            Q)
                       SI 1100                             Q
         900 | Ol2 ac                                S
                       7]             2              Ss                     8

      a               rs                                                                                   71
             AREA     BEING CHANGED FROM                                        AREA   BEING ADJUSTED
             VLDR     (VLDR2.5) TO AFLH (EF-80)                                 FROM   T.L. 3421-702

             PARCELS  INVOLVED                                                  AREA   BEING ADJUSTED
             IN THIS APPLICATION                                                FROM   T.L. 3421-1800

MAP   PREPAREO   BY   THE   YAMHILL   COUNTY   PLANNING    DEPARTMENT    6-10-1999