IN THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                                OF THE STATE OF OREGON

       9S     - PPP                 FOR THE COUNTY                   OF YAMHILL

                    SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

In the Matter of an Ordinance Amending the Yamhill
County Comprehensive Plan (1974) to Change the
Designation from Commercial Forestry to Parks and

                                                                       ee
Recreation,   to Amend    the Official Zoning Map        from
Forestry (F-80) to Recreation Commercial (RC), and

                                                                   ee
Taking an Exception from Statewide Planning Goal 4
on an Approximately 15-Acre Portion of Tax Lots

                                                                    eS
2625-302 and 2625-303 to Allow a Horse Rental                                    ORDINANCE          595
Facility, Motel and Cabins, and a Dwelling for a
Resident Manager; and a Conditional Use Approval to
Allow a Campground on a 108 Acre Portion of Tax
Lots 2625-300, 2625-302 and 2625-303; Applicant
Frank Walker and Associates for Flying M             Associates;
Planning Dockets PAZ-8-94 and C-35-94;

        THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the Board) sat for
the transaction of county business in special session on June 28,                      1995,      Commissioners        Dennis     L.
Goecks, Robert Johnstone, and Thomas E. E. Bunn being present.

        WHEREAS,         on   December   9,   1994     Frank    Walker         and   Associates    for    Flying   M   Associates
("Applicant") filed planning docket applications PAZ-8-94 and C-35-94 for a Comprehensive Plan Map
amendment from Commercial Forestry to Parks and Recreation, a zone change from Forestry (F-80) to
Recreation Commercial (RC), an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 4, on a 12-Acre portion of tax
lots 2625-300, 302 and 303, to allow a horse rental facility, motel and cabins, and on two separate 3-acre
areas to allow two dwellings for resident managers as part of a campground, and a conditional use
approval to allow development of a campground on 108 acres, west of Flying M Ranch, as more
particularly described on Exhibit "B" attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference; and

         WHEREAS, on February 2, 1995 the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public hearing
to consider the application and continued the matter to allow applicant to
amend the application to delete the two separate 3-acre areas for two dwellings and, instead to enlarge
to 15 acres the area to be rezoned and to include only one dwelling for a resident manager; and

         WHEREAS, on May 4, 1995, the Yamhill County Planning Commission held a public hearing
on the  amended  application, at which evidence and testimony was received, and that following the close
of the hearing, voted unanimously to approveed the zone change and conditional use, and to recommend
approval of the comprehensive plan amendment and exception, and referred the matter to the Board of
Commissioners;    and

        WHEREAS, on May 31, 1995, the Board held a public hearing on the amended application, at
which testimony and evidence was received, and that following the close of the hearing and the record,
the Board deliberated and voted to tentatively approve the amended application for the comprehensive
plan amendment, zone change, exception, and conditional use, and directed staff to prepare an ordinance

                                                                                                              ORDINANCE         595
                                                                                                                           Page        1
and findings in support of approval, Commissioners Goecks and Johnstone voting aye, Commissioner
Bunn abstaining; and

        WHEREAS, the findings and conclusions attached hereto as Exhibit "A and incorporated herein
by this reference provide a justification for approval of the application, including the taking of an
exception to Statewide Land Use Planning Goal 4; and

         WHEREAS, the attached Exhibit "A" demonstrates that the proposed exception and amendment
to the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Plan Map, and Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County are
in the best interests of the citizens of Yamhill County;          Now   Therefore,

         THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS                               ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1.    The Yamhill County Comprehensive
                                                     Plan and Plan Map (1974) are hereby amended
as specified   in the attached     Exhibit   "B",   made   part of this ordinance by   reference,   to reflect a plan
designation of "Parks and Recreation" on a portion of Tax Lots 2625-302 and 2625-303 as described and
shown in Exhibit "B".

        Section 2. In adopting the plan amendment specified in this ordinance, the county hereby takes
an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 4.

        Section 3. The Official Zoning Map of Yamhill County is hereby amended as specified in the
attached Exhibit "B" to reflect a zoning district designation of "Recreation Commercial (RC)".

        Section 4. A conditional use permit for development of a campground on a 108 acre portion of
Tax Lots 2625-300 2625-302 and 2625-303 is approved, subject to the conditions set forth in Exhibit
"AN

        Section 5. The findings attached as Exhibit "A" and incorporated herein by reference are hereby
adopted in support of this ordinance.

                           cMinnville, Oregon this 28th day of June, 1995.
        4 BOARD       Oe
                       .                       a                         i           OF CQOMMISSJONERS
        és            NN

                                               Chairman                  DENNIS      L. GOECKS

                                                     Cb          tO bats
                                               Commissioner         (] " ROBERT JOHNSTONE
                                                                    u

eb        Leg                                  Thre                     6.0.           Pru                    —
JOHN C. PINKSTAEF                              Commissioner               THOMAS E. E. BUNN
Assistant County Counsel
H: \ADMIN\PINKSTJ\LU\
                  95165

                                                                                                    ORDINANCE     595
                                                                                                              Page 2
                                           EXHIBIT "A"
                                          ORDINANCE 595
DATE OF PRELIMINARY APPROVAL
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                           May 31, 1995

DATE OF FINAL APPROVAL BY
THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:                           June 14, 1995

DOCKET NOS.:                   PAZ-8-94 and C-35-94

REQUEST:                       Comprehensive Plan“amendment from Commercial Forestry to
                               Parks and Recreation, Zoning Map amendment from Forestry
                               District (F-80) to Recreation Commercial (RC), and Exception to
                               Statewide Planning Goal 4 on 15 acre portion of Tax Lots 2625-
                               302 and 2625-303 to allow horse rental facility, motel and cabins,
                               and dwelling for resident manager, and a Conditional Use on 108
                               acre portion of Tax Lots 2625-300, 2625-302 and 2625-303 to
                               allow a campground.

APPLICANT:                     Frank Walker and Associates for Flying M Associates

TAX LOTS:                      2625-300, 302 and 303

LOCATION:                      West of and adjacent to Flying M Ranch, approximately nine miles
                               west of Yamhill.

FINDINGS:

A.       Background Facts:

1.      Property size: The proposed uses will occupy 123 acres, predominantly on the southern
portion of Tax Lots 300 and 302 and all of Tax Lot 303. The proposed zone change is for 15
acres.

2.     Access: Private road.     Flying    M Road, a gravel public road, ends at the section line
between Range 5 and 6 West.

3.     On-site Land Use: The 123 acre area is a relatively level valley bisected by the Yamhill
River, with steep hillsides rising to the north and south. The property is wooded and brushy.
A mobile home, barn and pole building are located on Tax Lot 303.

4.       Surrounding Land Use: The subject site is surrounded by forested mountains to the
north, west and south, and consists of large parcels used for commercial forestry.          Lands
directly east are part of the Flying M Ranch, including an air strip, lodge, motel, camping areas,
horse facilities and residences.

                                                                             EXHIBIT "A" - Page 1
                                                                                 ORDINANCE 595
5.     Surrounding Zoning:     Lands to the north, west and south are zoned Forestry (F-80).
Land to the east is zoned Agriculture/ Forestry (AF-20) and Recreation Commercial (RC).

6.      Soils: Sheets 5 and 6 of the Yamhill County Soil Survey indicate the area of the
proposed zone change and conditional use is composed of the following soils:

       Soil Type (Symbol)         % Slope         %_of Property           Cuft/Ac/Yr

       Alluvial Land (AL)       — --                      50               130
       Olyic (OLE)                 5-30                   37               160
       Melby (MEE)                 3-30                   13               165

7.     Fire Protection:   Yamhill Rural Fire District.

8.     Taxes: All three tax lots recetve a forest tax deferral.

9,     Previous Actions: Docket P-904-78 partitioned a 320 acre parcel into two 80 acre and
one 160 acre lots (Tax Lots 2625-300, 301 and 302). Docket P-928-78 approved a partition for
mortgage purposes on Tax Lot 2625-300 which created Tax Lot 303.                 Tax Lots 300 and 303
were required to be recombined upon completion of financing.              Docket C-282-78 approved a
single family dwelling on Tax Lots 2625-300/303. In addition, there have been several actions
on Flying M Ranch property directly east of the subject property, including approval in 1977
for a zone change to RC and planned unit development to allow expansion of the Flying M
facilities on approximately 80 acres (Docket PA-42-77/Z-120-77).

10.     Explanation of proposed development: The request is to allow an expansion of the Flying
M Ranch, on 123 acres directly west of the existing facility. The proposal includes rezoning
an irregularly shaped 15 acre area predominantly on Tax Lot 303 but extending north into Tax
Lot 302. The purpose of the zone change is to move a portion of the resort business away from
the main lodge and airstrip area.         Uses would include horse rentals, leading trail rides, and
providing parking and services for riders bringing their own horses to ride on Flying M and sur-
rounding properties.

       The proposal also includes food service and construction of a motel and/or cabins to
provide overnight accommodations to the horse riders. The proposed location for these uses is
an area south of the Yamhill River, near an existing mobile home and pole barn.           The "finger"
of proposed rezone land extending north of the river would be used for construction of a
dwelling for a resident manager on the hillside overlooking the other resort facilities. The
remainder of the 123 acres is proposed to be developed into a campground for horse and tent
camping.

11.    Application   history:     The     request was   first heard   by the Planning   Commission   on
February 2, 1995.    The original application included a request for two dwellings for resident
managers as part of the campground. Since these dwellings did not comply with the Yamhill
County Zoning Ordinance or state rules, the applicant requested a continuance to allow him to
amend the application. The revised application enlarged the size of the area requested to be
rezoned in order to include a single new dwelling for a resident manager. This amended request

                                                                                  EXHIBIT "A" - Page 2
                                                                                      ORDINANCE 595
went to a hearing     before   the Planning   Commission on May     4,   1995,    and   was   approved
unanimously.

B.     Ordinance Considerations.

1.      The proposed uses that will occur in the 15 acre exception/ rezone area are horse rentals,
lodging, food service, retreats, group gatherings and a manager’s residence. These uses come
within the definition of a "resort", which is defined by Section 202 of the YCZO as:

        "RESORT: Any area of land or water used for open-land commercial or private
       recreation where overnight lodging, meals, and related tourist services are
       provided in conjunction with such recreational use.”

2.       YCZO Section 601.02(A) of the YCZO        lists a "resort" as a permitted use in the RC
district, subject to site design review.

3.      YCZO Section 601.02(G) lists a dwelling in conjunction with a permitted use as allowed
in the RC district. The Board interprets "conjunction" to mean joined or in combination with.
The applicant has submitted a revised site plan (Revised Figure 1 in Addendum #2 dated April
18, 1995) indicating that the proposed manager’s residence would be located on the other side
of the river and 1000 feet or more from the other proposed resort facilities. The manager’s
residence will provide a vantage point from which to monitor access to and activities occurring
within the campground area. The Board finds that the manager’s residence will be a dwelling
in conjunction with the permitted use (resort).

4.     YCZO Section 601.07(A) limits the number of dwellings permitted in the RC district to
one dwelling per parcel. Since a mobile home currently exists on Tax Lot 2625-303 within the
15 acre area proposed to be rezoned to RC, the additional dwelling will be located on Tax Lot
2625-302 which has no existing dwellings.

C.     Exception to Statewide Planning Goal 4.

L.     The request for a zone change to RC will require taking an exception to Statewide
Planning Goal 4, Forest Lands.      Goal 4 is:

       To conserve forest lands by maintaining the forest land base and to protect the
       state’s forest economy by making possible economically efficient forest practices
       that assure the continuous growing and harvesting of forest tree species as the
       leading use on forest land consistent with sound management of soil, air, water,
       and fish and wildlife resources and to provide for recreational opportunities and
       agriculture.

2.      Goal 2, Part H(c), ORS 197.732, OAR 660-04-020(2) and 660-04-022 state the
requirements for taking an exception to a goal. Briefly, there are three methods to justify an
exception: 1) the land is physically developed to an extent that it is no longer available for uses
allowed by the goal; 2) the land is irrevocably committed to uses not allowed by the goal; and

                                                                                 EXHIBIT "A" - Page 3
                                                                                     ORDINANCE 595
3) reasons justify why the goal should not apply.     The applicant has chosen to justify a "reasons"
exception.

3.      OAR 660-04-020 and -022 detail the requirements for reasons exceptions.          Section 660-
04-022(1) states:

             . reasons shall justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals
       should not apply.       Such reasons include but are not limited to the following:

                  (a)      There is a demonstrated need for the proposed use or activity,
                  based on one or more of the requirements of Statewide Goals 3 to 19; and
                  either

                  (b)      A resource upon which the proposed use or activity is dependent
                  can be reasonably obtained only at the proposed exception site and the use
                  or activity requires a location near the resource. An exception based on
                  this subsection must include an analysis of the market area to be served
                  by the proposed use or activity. That analysis must demonstrate that the
                  proposed exception site is the only one within that market area at which
                  the resource depended upon can reasonably be obtained; or

                  (c)      The proposed use or activity has special features or qualities that
                  necessitate its location on or near the proposed exception site.

4,       The Board finds that the requirements       of OAR    660-04-022(1)   have been satisfied as
follows:

4.1     The Board finds that there is a demonstrated need for the proposed use or activity as
required by OAR 660-04-022(1)(a), based on the following. The applicant has focused primarily
on the need for the proposed expansion as justification for why the policy embodied in Goal 4
should not apply. Regarding (a) above, Statewide Goal 8, "Recreational Needs” aims:

        To satisfy the recreational needs of the citizens of the state and visitors and,
        where appropriate, to provide for the siting of necessary recreational facilities
        including destination resorts.

        The Goal includes guidelines for planning and siting recreation facilities, including
consideration of energy consequences by giving priority to non-motorized recreational activities;
meeting recreational needs of high density population centers and visitors to the state;
minimizing environmental deterioration; not exceeding the carrying capacity of air, land and
water resources; availability to the public at nominal cost; and giving high priority to enhancing
recreational opportunities on public waters of the state. The proposed horse facilities comply
with the Goal by providing non-motorized recreation at moderate cost, providing access to
natural areas and the Yamhill river while causing minimal disturbance to natural resources, and
satisfying recreational needs of the county, Portland metro area, and visitors from out-of-state.

                                                                                 EXHIBIT "A" - Page 4
                                                                                     ORDINANCE 595
       The applicant has provided information showing that business at the Flying M Ranch has
increased considerably over the years, illustrating a need for the proposed uses.        There is an
additional need for an expansion of the existing Flying M facilities because of congestion and
possibly hazardous conditions since all activities are currently centered in a small area around
the lodge and airstrip. The applicant asserts that there is a need to move the horse facilities a
greater distance away, which will alleviate much of the congestion. The proposed motel and
cabins would be located near the horse facilities in order to accommodate riders.

4,2    The Board finds that the requirements of 660-04-022(1)(b) and (c) have been satisfied
based on the following.    The proposed horse facility depends upon riding trails in the adjacent
mountains, including trails to Trask Mountain and Tillamook which have been developed for
overnight horse camping trips. The existing Flying M resort is an additional resource or special
feature upon which the proposed use depends sinceit is an established resort which attracts the
horse riders who will use the new horse facility and overnight accommodations.

5.      OAR 660-04-020(2) lists the four factors in Goal 2 Part II(c) that must be addressed when
taking a reasons exception:

        (a)    Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals
               should not apply;

        (b)    Areas which do not require a new exception cannot reasonably accommo-
               date the use;

        (c)    The long term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences
               resulting from the use at the proposed site with measures designed to
               reduce adverse impacts are not significantly more adverse than would
               typically result from the same proposal being located in areas requiring
               a@ goal exception other than the proposed site; and

        (d)     The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or will be so
                rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.

        These criteria are addressed in Findings C.6 through C.9, below.

6.      The Board finds that the requirement of 660-04-020(2)(a) has been satisfied. The Board
finds that the reasons discussed in finding B.4 above justify why the state policy embodied in
the applicable goals should not apply, as required by OAR 660-04-020(2)(a).

7.       The Board finds that the requirement in OAR 660-04-020(b) that areas which do not
require a new exception cannot reasonably accommodate these uses, has been satisfied as
follows.    Exception areas within or near existing cities are too far away from the existing,
established business, which relies on the surrounding resource land for trail riding.     There is a
5 acre parcel zoned RC which is located approximately one mile east of the Flying M Ranch.
The applicant states that this parcel is unsuitable because it does not provide direct access to the
trails utilized by horse riders, is too small for the proposed uses, and is located next to an active
rock quarry and heavily travelled gravel road which creates noise and a lack of privacy.

                                                                               EXHIBIT "A" - Page 5
                                                                                   ORDINANCE 595
7.1      Other exception land in the area is the 75 acres of RC zoned land which is the site of the
existing Flying M facility. OAR 660-04-020(2)(b)(B)(i) and (ii) indicate that the analysis of
availability of land which would not require a new exception must also consider whether the
proposed uses could be reasonably accommodated by increasing the density of existing uses in
this exception area.

7.2     The 75 acres zoned RC contains the main lodge, a 24 unit motel, a smaller 4 unit lodge,
8 cabins, camping areas, parking, the airstrip, picnic areas and a corral for horse rentals. In
1977, as part of a requested zone change to RC and Planned Unit Development (Docket PA-42-
71/Z-120-77), the 75 acre area was approved for construction of a total of 160 units for
overnight accommodation.      Many of the areas that had been proposed for these units were
instead developed as campsites.    Steep slopes on the northern edge of the exception area also
prevent development of the full 75 acres.            .

         Conceivably, density in the area could be increased or some of the campsites could be
removed to allow construction of the proposed new uses. However, the applicant has indicated
that the purpose of the proposed motel/cabins is specifically to accommodate horse riders, so
adequate area must be provided for parking horse trailers and tethering horses nearby. This will
require larger areas than could be provided by increasing the density within the existing RC
zoned area. The proposed horse staging area will also require more space for corrals and horse
trailer parking than is available in the existing RC area. Consequently, the horse facilities and
overnight accommodations could not be reasonably accommodated either on this 75 acre
exception area, or any other non-resource land in the county.

7.3.   The proposed resident manager’s dwelling, which will be in conjunction with the resort,
could easily be accommodated within the existing exception area. The applicant states that the
proposed location on a hillside overlooking the proposed campground and resort is necessary in
order to have a view of the facilities, to watch for fires or other unauthorized activities, and to
regulate horse rider’s access to certain trails on the northern portion of the ranch.

8.      The Board finds that the requirements of OAR 660-04-020(1)(c), are satisfied based on
the following.

8.1     The economic, environmental, social and energy consequences analysis should include
reasons why the consequences of the use at the proposed site are not significantly more adverse
than if the uses were located elsewhere, and should include consideration of which resource land
is least productive, the ability to sustain resource uses near the proposed site, and the long-term
economic impact caused by removal of the land from the resource base.

8.2     Environmental consequences which might result from the proposed uses include potential
impacts to riparian vegetation along the Yamhill River, impacts from run-off, erosion and animal
wastes entering the river, and interference with big game winter habitat.       The SWCD has
expressed concerns about animal wastes and other runoff into the river, and has suggested that
a management plan addressing those issues be developed. The proposed dwelling location would
be located in an area that the applicant indicated is being actively managed to provide winter
feeding areas for elk.   It is also on Olyic soil with 30%   - 60%   slopes, which the Soil Survey
indicates has severe erosion hazards and rapid runoff in cleared areas.

                                                                              EXHIBIT "A" - Page 6
                                                                                  ORDINANCE 595
8.3     There will be some economic impact caused by removing the {5 acres from forest use.
Soils in the proposed exception area are Alluvial Land, Melby and Olyic, which have a
capability to produce 130 - 165 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber. (Soils in the county
range from a capability of 0 - 165 cubic feet per acre per year of wood fiber.)                The expanded
resort facilities and manager’s residence would preclude the exception area from timber
production, and may have other economic costs resulting from limiting certain forest practices
such as aerial spraying near the development.

8.4     The major adverse social consequence is increased traffic on gravel roads leading to the
Flying M Ranch. While individual homeowners along the roads may be affected by increased
traffic and dust, Public Works has reviewed the request and has not expressed any concerns
about increased traffic on the road system.

8.5     There are no significant energy consequences.        The Flying M Ranch is already an
established resort which attracts visitors from throughout the area. While the proposed uses may
increase visitor trips to the site, the increased energy used for transportation purposes will not
be significant.

9.        The Board finds that the requirement in OAR 660-04-020(d) is satisfied based on the
following.

9.1      The proposed. uses are compatible, or can be made compatible with adjacent forestry
activities and natural resources. Surrounding forest lands are owned by the subject property
owners,        Willamette   Industries   and   the BLM.   Willamette   Industries,   the BLM   and the state
Department of Forestry have expressed concern about increased numbers of horse riders using
the area, increased fire danger and possible limiting effects on forest practices. Setbacks from
adjacent forest tands for all development and an aggressive fire protection program can make
the uses compatible with adjacent forest activities.

9.2    The proposed uses may have impacts to the natural values of the Yamhill River because
of removal or trampling of riparian vegetation and introduction of animal waste into the river.
Setbacks from the river and maintenance of riparian vegetation within the setback will assure
that the uses will be compatible with the natural resource values of the adjacent river.

D.        Zone Change and Plan Amendment Provisions and Analysis.

1.     The Plan Amendment portion of the request is not subject to local review criteria. The
zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and criteria in YCZO Section
1208.02. These provisions are:

          A.        That the proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies, and any
                    other applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.

          B.        That there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
                    requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
                    economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and

                                                                                       EXHIBIT "A" - Page 7
                                                                                           ORDINANCE 595
                   the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
                    uses allowed by the zone.

         Cc.        That the proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses,
                   the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
                   occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability
                   of utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
                   district.

         D.         That other lands in the county already designated for the proposed use are either
                    unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
                   other factors.

        EB.         That the amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules
                   jor exceptions, if applicable.

         The findings regarding these criteria are provided in subsections D.2 through D.6 below.

2.       The Board finds that the applicable comprehensive plan goals and policies are satisfied,
as required by YCZO Section 1208.02 A, based on the following.                      The area of the proposed
zone change is identified as sensitive winter range for big game on the Critical Wildlife Habitat
map (Natural Resource Conservation Plan, Yamhill County, Oregon, May 1979 - U.S.D.A. Soil
Conservation Services). Comprehensive Plan Goal JI.D.1.f states:

        In the Sensitive and Peripheral Big               Game     Winter Range,    all proposed zone
         changes and applications for partitions will be referred to the Oregon Department
         of Fish and Wildlife for determination of conflicts with big game habitat
        requirements. In the event the Department identifies and informs the county that
        site-specific habitat conflicts exist, the county will not approve said zone changes
        without seeking resolution of such conflicts.

         ODFW       was sent a copy of the requested zone change and did not indicate any concerns
or conflicts.

3.       The Board finds that there is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses
allowed by the requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
economy        of the   area,   the   existing   market   demand    which   such   uses   will   satisfy,   and   the
availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the uses allowed by the
zone,   as required by YCZO           Section    1208.02 B, are satisfied as follows:

3.]      The Board finds that the requirement in section 1208.02 B has been met. The applicant
indicates that business at the Flying M Ranch has increased substantially over the years,
including use of the facility for horse riding, and that the existing motel and cabins are often at
capacity.      The Ranch provides recreational opportunities not available elsewhere, as well as
economic benefits to the county. The availability and suitability of other lands zoned RC which
would allow the proposed uses was discussed in Findings C.4 and C.7 above.

                                                                                           EXHIBIT "A" - Page 8
                                                                                               ORDINANCE 595
        The Board concludes that the request complies with this criterion because there is a
market demand for the expanded facilities, there are no other suitable lands available,        and the
Ranch is important to the economy of the area.

4.      The Board finds that the requirement in section 1208.02 C has been met. The shape of
the requested zone change area, and the proposed location of the resident manager’s dwelling
at some distance from other resort facilities on a steep forested hillside raises some concerns
about the appropriateness of the proposal. The area is surrounded by forest Jand and sensitive
big game winter habitat, and would introduce human activity and development into a previously
undeveloped natural area. This would change the density and pattern of development, would
require the extension and/or improvement of roads and utilities and increase the need for fire
protection.

       Therefore, the Board finds that the proposed change is appropriate considering the
surrounding land uses, the density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which
may have occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed district.

5.       The Board finds that the requirement in section 1208.02 D has been met, based on the
availability of other lands in the county which would allow the proposed uses, as discussed in
Finding C.7 above.

6.      The Board finds that the OAR requirements for an exception have been addressed as
required by section 1208.02 E, based on the findings in Section C. above.

E.      Conditional Use Provisions and Analysis,

1.      The applicant has requested conditional use approval for 108 acres to be used as a
campground.

1.1      The request must satisfy the conditional use criteria of YCZO         Section   1202.02, as
follows:

        A.     The use is listed as a conditional use in the underlying zoning
               district;

        B.     The use is consistent with those goals and policies of the Compre-
               hensive Plan which apply to the proposed use;

        Cc.    The parcel is suitable for the proposed use considering its size, shape,
               location, topography,   existence of improvements,   and natural features.

        Dz     The proposed use will not alter the character of the surrounding
               area in a manner which substantially limits,    impairs,   or prevents
               the use of surrounding properties for the permitted uses listed in
               the underlying zoning district.

                                                                               EXHIBIT "A" - Page 9
                                                                                   ORDINANCE 595
       BE.        The proposed use is appropriate, considering the adequacy of the
                  public facilities and services existing or planned for the area
                  affected; and                            :

       F.         The use is or can be made compatible with existing uses and other
                  allowable uses in the area,

1.2.   Under YCZO         Section 401.05, conditional uses in the F-80 district must also meet the
following requirements:

       A.         The proposed use will not force a significant change in, or
                  significantly increase the cost of, accepted farming or forest
                  practices on agriculture or forest lands;

       B.         The proposed use will not significantly increase fire suppression
                  costs or significantly increase risks to fire suppression personnel;
                  and

       C.         A written statement recorded with the deed or written contract with
                  the county or its equivalent is obtained from the land owner which
                  recognizes the rights of adjacent and nearby land owners to
                  conduct forest operations consistent with the Forest Practices Act
                  and Rules for uses authorized in Section 401.04.

1.3.   These requirements are considered in Findings E.2 through E.11, below.

3.     The Board finds that the requirements of YCZO           §1202.02 A have been satisfied because
campgrounds are listed as a conditional use in the F-80 district.         Section 401.12 B defines a
campground as:

       An area devoted to overnight temporary use for vacation, recreational or
       emergency purposes, but not for residential purposes. A camping site may be
       occupied by a tent, travel trailer or recreational vehicle. Campgrounds shall not
       include intensively developed recreational uses such as swimming pools, tennis
       courts, retail stores or gas stations.     The park or campground may be public or
       private.

4.     The Board finds that the requirements of YCZO §1202.02 B have been satisfied because
the use is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan goals relating to forest lands, water resources
and fish and wildlife habitat relate to the proposed campground.

4.1    Goal H].B, Forest Lands,      Policy 1.a, states:

       Yamhill County will cooperate with federal and State agencies,
       large private timber owners and small woodland owners to manage
       forest and grazing lands for the highest aggregate economic,
        recreational and ecological benefits which these lands can sustain,

                                                                                EXHIBIT "A" - Page 10
                                                                                     ORDINANCE 595
       including timber production,           livestock range, fish and wildlife
       habitat, watershed protection, erosion control and recreational use.

        The proposed campground use complies with this policy because it allows
recreational use while still preserving the timber production capabilities on the
majority of the site. Wildlife habitat value can be maintained or enhanced if
camping is restricted during winter and early spring and open campground areas
are seeded to provide winter grazing for big game. Recreational use of the
property will bring greater economic benefits than timber production alone.

4.2    Comprehensive Plan Goal II.C, Water Resource,                    Policy   1.b states:

       Yamhill County will continue participation in the FEMA National
       Flood Insurance Program to prevent flood-caused loss of life and
       property, by identifying and mapping the floodplains and floodways
       of the county, restricting land uses within the floodplains to those
       which are open and undeveloped, including forestry, agriculture,
       wildlife habitat and recreational areas and encouraging improved
       watershed management practices and the construction of watershed
       Storage projects for flood control.

        As shown on FIRM 4101249 0125 C, part of the subject property lies in
the flood hazard area of the Yamhill River. The applicant has indicated that the
floodplain area along both sides of the river will be utilized for tent camping.
Development will include picnic tables and portable toilets.                 Provided there are
no permanent buildings, the campground would not require a floodplain
development permit, pursuant to Section 901.05 of the YCZO. The proposed
campground complies with Comprehensive Plan Policy II.C.1.a since it is an
open, recreational use.

4.3.   Comprehensive Plan Goai JI.B.1.j states:

       It is the policy of Yamhill County to protect riparian vegetation
       from     damage     that may     result from      land     use   applications for
       development that is otherwise permitted outright or conditionally
       under county zoning regulations.            To achieve this goal,         Yamhill
       County      will review land use applications for development                    in
       riparian    areas    in an   effort to mitigate          or prevent   damage     to
       riparian vegetation that might result from the development.                    For
       purposes of this policy,       "riparian areas”    refers to areas within 100
       feet measured horizontally from the ordinary high water line of
       streams identified as        "Fish Habitat" in the comprehensive plan
       inventory    (Natural Resource       Conservation Plan,          Yamhill County,
       Oregon, May 1979 - U.S.D.A, - Soil Conservation Services), that
       are not regulated under the Forest Practices Act.

                                                                                             EXHIBIT "A" - Page 11
                                                                                                  ORDINANCE 595
        The Yamhill River, which runs through the proposed campground, is
shown as a resident trout and anadromous fish spawning and rearing stream on
the comprehensive plan map. In order to protect riparian vegetation and comply
with Plan Policy IJ.B.1.j, development or removal of existing vegetation should
be prohibited within 100 feet of the high-water line of the river.

4.4     The proposed campground areas are on land identified as sensitive winter
range   for big game    on the. Critical Wildlife   Habitat map    (Natural   Resource
Conservation   Plan, Yamhill County, Oregon, May 1979 - U.S.D.A. Soil
Conservation   Services). Comprehensive Plan Goal II.D, Fish and Wildlife,
Policy 1.c states:

        All identified sensitive wildlife areas will be classified as exclusive
        agriculture, forest land or open space. No major land use change,
        including but not limited to road construction and recreational
        developments will be permitted without approval measures to limit
        undesirable impacts on sensitive wildlife areas.

        The major impediments to use of an area by big game are fencing or other barriers that
prevent movement of animals, dogs that chase animals, and human disturbance. These potential
impacts can be mitigated by requiring as a condition of approval that the area remain unfenced
and that the campground not be used during the winter months when big game are in the area.

5.       The Board finds that the requirements of YCZO §1202.02 C have been satisfied. The
parcel is suitable for the proposed use of tent and horse camping because it is a natural forested
area of sufficient size (108 acres) to allow dispersed use while retaining the natural qualities of
the site. The location, which is adjacent to the existing Flying M Ranch facility, is suitable
based on access and integration with existing development including roads, trails, and overnight
lodging.

6.      The Board finds that the requirements of YCZO §1202.02 D have been satisfied.              The
use will not negatively affect the character of the area.     Permitted uses in the F-80 district are
primarily related to timber production and protection of natural resources.          The applicant has
indicated that the owners of the Flying M Ranch have a working relationship with Willamette
Industries, owners of adjacent forest land, to allow horse trail riding on Willamette Industries
property in return for maintenance and use of roads on Flying M property.

         Normal forest practices on surrounding lands, including logging, slash burning or use of
herbicides and fertilizers would not be substantially impaired by the location of the proposed
campground (although use of the campground might have to be limited when these activities are
occurring on adjacent lands). There are no known conflicts between the existing Flying M
facility and uses on surrounding properties.

        The applicant has also indicated that the owners of Flying M have an agreement with the
Department of Fish and Wildlife (ODFW) for management of the property for elk habitat. The
applicant indicates that the clearing of campsites will produce suitable habitat grazing areas for
elk, and that no conflicts will occur because the campground will not be utilized during the

                                                                                  EXHIBIT "A" - Page 12
                                                                                       ORDINANCE 595
months that elk and other big game utilize the area. A primitive campground, with retention of
most of the natural vegetation on the property, will not alter the character of the area or
substantially limit the use of surrounding properties for forestry and natural resource uses.

7.      The Board finds that the requirements of YCZO §1202.02 E have been satisfied. Existing
public facilities and services are adequate to serve the proposed campground. No public water
or sewer facilities exist in the area, but the campground can be adequately served with a well
and either septic drainfields or chemical toilets. The county sanitarian will need to approve the
sewage disposal method. Electricity and phone service are available, although unlikely to be
used in the camping areas. Other services of concern are road access and fire protection. The
public portion of Flying M Road ends at the eastern edge of the site - the road is private beyond
that point.   Improvement and maintenance of the private road for access and fire safety will be
the responsibility of the property owners.          The public portion of Flying         M    Road    will see
increased traffic if the campground is approved.          No figures have been provided as to how many
how many additional traffic trips will be generated with the expanded facilities. The County
Road Department has not indicated any concerns over road access. The Yamhill Rural Fire
District was notified of this request and has not responded, so it is not known whether
emergency fire service is adequate. The applicant has indicated that a pumper truck and other
emergency fire fighting equipment is maintained on-site.

8.      The Board     finds that the requirements of YCZO              §1202.02   F have been        satisfied.
Regarding compatibility with existing and allowable uses in the area, the main concern is
conflicts with or impacts on forest practices on surrounding commercial forest lands. As
discussed in Finding D.6 above, the campground will have little impact on forest practices on
adjacent lands.

9.      The   Board   finds   that   the proposed   use    will   not force   a significant   change     in or
significantly increase the cost of accepted farming or forest practices on agriculture or forest
lands, as required by YCZO §401.05 A. Forest practices in the form of logging, replanting,
and aerial application of fertilizers and chemicals are occurring or are likely to occur on adjacent
properties.   The applicant has indicated that many of these activities are timed to occur when
the campground would not be occupied. Consequently, the campground would not significantly
change or increase the cost of normal forest practices. There are no agricultural uses in the
area.

10.     The Board finds that the proposed use will not significantly increase fire suppression
costs or significantly increase risks to firefighting personnel, as required by YCZO §401.05 B.
The large numbers of people that will utilize the site, along with its location in a forested setting
increases the fire risk. The Yamhill Rural Fire District was notified of this request but had not
responded by the time this report was written. The applicant has indicated that strict fire
protection measures are used, including restriction of campfires during high fire danger periods
and maintenance of an on-site pumper truck and fire equipment. Roads serving the camping
area will allow access by fire trucks, so fire suppression costs and risks to fire personnel should
not increase significantly. A condition of any approval should require that the entire camping
area be accessible to emergency fire vehicles through the construction of roads that meet State
Fire Code construction standards.

                                                                                    EXHIBIT "A" - Page 13
                                                                                         ORDINANCE 595
11.   | The Board finds that the requirement in YCZO    §401.05 C   is satisfied by the imposition
of a condition of the approval that a written statement be recorded with the deed or written
contract with the county or its equivalent is obtained from the land owner which recognizes the
rights of adjacent and nearby land owners to conduct forest operations consistent with the Forest
Practices Act and Rules for uses authorized in Section 401.04.

F,     Site Design Review Criteria and Analysis.

1.      Site design review is required for any development in an RC district. The applicant has
not submitted any building or site design plans. Should the requested zone change be approved,
a condition shall require approval of a site development plan prior to any development or
construction,

CONCLUSIONS:

1.     The request is for Comprehensive Plan amendment from Commercial Forestry to Parks
and Recreation, Zoning Map amendment from Forestry District (F-80) to Recreation
Commercial (RC), and Exception to Statewide Planning Goal 4 on 15 acre portion of Tax Lots
2625-302 and 2625-303 to allow horse rental facility, motel and cabins, and dwelling for resident
manager, and a Conditional Use on 108 acre portion of Tax Lots 2625-300, 2625-302 and 2625-
303 to allow a campground. The area proposed for rezoning lies generally near the center of
Tax Lot 2625-303, although a long strip extends into the northern half of Tax Lot 2625-302.
The area proposed for the campground is the remaining portions of Tax Lot 2625-303 and the
southern half of Tax Lots 2625-300 and 302.

2.     A dwelling in conjunction with the resort is proposed to be located near the northern end
of this strip. The strip, and the proposed dwelling, complies with the requirements of OAR 660-
04-020 for taking a "reasons" exception and Section 1208.02 of the YCZO for a zone change.
The dwelling can be considered "in conjunction” with the resort facilities because a manager will
be able to visually overlook and keep an eye on activities associated with the campground and
resort, and provide a means of regulating access of horse riders to lands north of the resort.

3.      The request to rezone 15 acres for a resort complies with the requirements for an
exception and zone change on Tax Lot 2625-303 and the southern half of Tax Lot 302, provided
an adequate buffer is maintained between resort facilities and the Yamhill River and adjacent
forested lands.

4,     The request for a campground complies with the approval criteria for a conditional use
pursuant to Sections 401.05 and 1202.02 of the Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan.

5.     Conditions are necessary to insure compliance with all provisions of the Yamhill County
Zoning Ordinance and Comprehensive Plan.

DECISION     AND   CONDITIONS       OF APPROVAL:

Based on the Findings and Conclusions stated above, the Board finds that the requested exception
to Goal 4, zone change to Recreation Commercial (RC) District and plan amendment to Parks

                                                                           EXHIBIT "A" - Page 14
                                                                                ORDINANCE 595
and Recreation for a resort on 15 acres of Tax Lots 2625-302         and 303, and request for a
conditional use for a campground on 108 acres of Tax Lot 2625-303 and the southern half of
Tax Lots 300 and 302 is hereby approved, subject to conditions, to assure compliance with the
approval criteria, as follows:

1.      The rezoned area shall be limited to Tax Lot 2625-303 and portions of the northern and
southern haif of Tax Lot 2625-302, and shall be a maximum of 15 acres in size. The applicant
shall submit a final plat of the rezone area prior to final approval by the Board.   The final plat
shall show the location and all dimensions of the 15 acre area and the location of all existing
buildings.   The 15 acre area shall be substantially located as indicated on the revised site plan
submitted by the applicant.

2.     Site design review and approval is required prior to any development within the RC
zoned area.

3.      A site development plan shall be submitted prior to development of the campground.     The
development plan shall show the location of all proposed and existing roads, structures,
wastewater and sewage disposal facilities and include the number and location of all campsites.

4.      Prior to any development, the applicant shall obtain all necessary state and local permits
and licenses, including, but not necessarily limited to, required approvals, licenses and permits
from the Department of Commerce, Building Codes Division for the campground; the State
and/or County Health Division for wastewater and sewage disposal and food handling; the
County Sanitation Department; and the County Building Department.

5.      (Deleted)

6.      A written statement shall be recorded with the deeds of Tax Lots 2625-300, 302 and 303,
recognizing the rights of adjacent and nearby land owners to conduct forest operations consistent
with the Forest Practices Act.

7.      A floodplain development permit shall be obtained prior to any development in the flood
hazard area, unless specifically exempted by Section 901.05 of the Yamhill County Zoning
Ordinance.

8.      All development shall be located at least 100 feet, measured horizontally, from the high
waiter line of the Yamhill River.

9.      A riparian area management plan shall be developed and approved by the Soil and Water
Conservation District addressing control of animal waste, runoff and soil erosion to prevent
negative impacts to the Yamhill River and associated riparian area.

10.     No fencing shall be allowed in the campground area.    Fencing in the RC zoned area shall
be limited to corrals and other fencing necessary for safe operation of the horse facility.

                                                                            EXHIBIT "A" - Page 15
                                                                                 ORDINANCE 595
                                                       obey,

11.    All campsites, facilities and structures shall be accessible to emergency fire vehicles.
Roads shall be constructed to meet State Fire Code standards and shall be approved by the State
Fire Marshall or local fire chief.

12.       Prior to any development of resort facilities or the campground,   a fire protection plan
shall be approved by the local fire chief and submitted to the Planning Director. The protection
plan shall show that all areas of the resort and campground are accessible to emergency fire
vehicles, and show that an adequate water source is available for fire-fighting purposes.

13.    All permanent buildings, regardless of the zoning district in which they are located, shall
comply with the fire siting and construction standards in Section 401.09 of the YCZO.

14.     Tax Lots 2625-300 and 303 shall be recombined into one tax lot upon completion of
financing arrangements, in accordance with the conditions of approval of P-928-78.

FAPA\PAZ-8-94.SR3.
HAADMIN\PINKSTALU95165.002

                                                                             EXHIBIT "A" - Page 16
                                                                                  ORDINANCE 595
                       EXHIBIT   "“B" for Ordinance No.   595

                  Zoning Map and Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment
                       to Change the Zoning Map Designation from
                               F-80 Forestry District to
                       RC Recreation Commercial District and the
                       Comprehensive Plan Map designation from
                            Forestry to Parks and Recreation

  ouas   - B00                                            ALAS -30R

                             2uvas- 303

                                 Area subject to Comprehensive
                                 Plan and Zone Map amendment

Prepared by Yamhill County Department of Planning and Development.    Not to scale.

                                                                         Exhibit      "B"
                                                                         Ordinance          595