YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 11.15: Yamhill County Resource Use Protection Code  Page 1 of 3

YAMHILL COUNTY CODE

TITLE 11: LAND USE

Chapter 11.15: Yamhill County Resource Use Protection Code

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section Title
11.15.01 SHORT TITLE
11.15.02 PURPOSE
11.15.03 DEFINITIONS
11.15.04 PROTECTING RESOURCE USES OUTSIDE UGB
11.15.05 PROTECTING RESOURCE USES WITHIN UGB
11.15.06 CHANGE IN UGB
11.15.07 LAND USE DECISIONS
11.15.08 COMPLAINTS BY NONRESOURCE USERS
11.15.09 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

11.15.01 Short Title. This ordinance may be cited as the Yamhill County Resource Use Protection Ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.02 Purpose.
a) It is the purpose of this Ordinance to protect resource based economically productive activities of Yamhill
County in order to assure the continued health, safety and prosperity of its residents. Resource uses sometimes
offend, annoy, interfere with or otherwise affect others located on or near resource lands. Yamhill County has
concluded that persons located on or near resource lands must accept the conditions commonly associated
with accepted resource uses.
b) This ordinance is intended to limit the availability of remedies based on nuisance or trespass, complaint
procedures, rights of action and claims for relief over which Yamhill County has jurisdiction, which otherwise
would either have an adverse impact on resource uses Yamhill County seeks to protect, or would impair full
use of the resource base within Yamhill County.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.03 Definitions. As used in this ordinance:
a) “Facility” means any real or personal property, including appurtenances thereof and fixtures thereto,
associated with a given use.
b) “Farming practice” means the cultivation, growing, harvesting, processing or selling of plants or animals of
any kind, and their byproducts, which lawfully may be grown, possessed and sold, including but not limited
to fish, livestock, poultry, grapes, Christmas trees and nursery stock.
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 11.15: Yamhill County Resource Use Protection Code  Page 2 of 3
c) “Forest practice” has the meaning given that term by ORS 527.620.
d) “Nonresource use” means any facility, activity or other use of land which does not constitute a resource use,
including but not limited to residential use, and also including any aggregate mining use which is not
conducted in accordance with a program complying with Goal 5.
e) “Resource use” means any current or future generally accepted aggregate mining, farming, ranching or forest
practice or facility conducted in compliance with applicable Yamhill County Ordinances.
f) “Generally accepted” means either:
(i) A practice or facility which is conducted or used in compliance with applicable federal and state
laws; or
(ii) If there is no applicable federal or state law, a practice or facility which an average person in
Yamhill County regularly involved in the same type of resource use would reasonably expect to
occur or exist (in a truly rural setting ). The Yamhill County Board of Commissioners may, as it
deems necessary, establish resource user peer review boards consisting of five persons each, three
of whom regularly are involved in a resource use within the county, to advise the Commission as
to generally accepted practices or facilities with respect to that resource use.
g) “Resource use” does not include:
(i) The willful growing of unlawful, infested, infected or diseased plants or animals.
(ii) Trespass which involves actual physical intrusion onto the property of another by a person (or a
person’s animals).
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.04 Protecting Resource Uses Outside UGB.
a) No resource use occurring outside an urban growth boundary (UGB) shall be declared to be a public or private
nuisance or trespass, or to support any complaint procedure, or to give rise to a claim for relief in favor of, or
to protect the interests of, nonresource uses or any persons or property associated therewith, to the extent that
such right, proceeding or claim would arise under an ordinance or the inherent authority of Yamhill County.
b) This section applies regardless of:
(i) The location of the purportedly affected nonresource use.
(ii) Whether the nonresource use purportedly affected existed before or after the occurrence of the
resource use.
(iii) Whether the resource use or nonresource use has undergone any change or interruption.
(iv) Whether the resource use or nonresource use is located inside or outs ide an area designated as
secondary resource lands.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.05 Protecting Resource Uses Within UGB.
a) No resource use occurring within an urban growth boundary (UGB) shall be declared to be a public or private
nuisance or trespass, or support any complaint procedure, or give rise to a claim for relief in favor of, or to
protect the interests of, nonresource uses or any persons or property associated therewith, to the extent that
such right, proceeding or claim would arise under an ordinance or the inherent authority of Yamhill County.
b) This section applies:
(i) Regardless of the location of the purportedly affected nonresource use.
(ii) Only if the resource use predated the purportedly affected nonresource.
(iii) Only if the resource use has not significantly increased in size or intensity after (A) the effective
date of this Ordinance, or (B) the date on which the applicable urban growth boundary is changed
to include the subject resource use within its limits, whichever date is later. However, if the change
is mandated by law, this section shall apply.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.06 Change in UGB. To the extent permissible under  State law, if an urban growth boundary (UGB) is
changed in such a way as to place a resource use either inside or outside such boundary, Section 4 of this ordinance
applies with respect to any conflict between a resource use and nonresource use.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]
YAMHILL COUNTY CODE
Chapter 11.15: Yamhill County Resource Use Protection Code  Page 3 of 3

11.15.07 Land Use Decisions. The fact that Yamhill County's comprehensive plan, zoning ordinances and land
use decisions may allow the siting, development or support of any particular use does not negate the provisions
of this ordinance intended to protect a resource use.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.08 Complaints by Nonresource Users. Any persons engaged in a nonresource use are deemed on notice
that Yamhill County will not act on complaints involving a resource use protected under this ordinance, wherever
located, so long as such resource use complies with applicable provisions of federal and state laws and this
ordinance.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

11.15.09 Severability Clause. If any portion of this ordinance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall apply only with respect to the specific portion held invalid by the decision. It is the intent of
Yamhill County that the remaining portions of this ordinance continue in full force and effect.
[ADOPTED VIA ORDINANCE NO. 541 eff 11/04/92]

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

Adopted via Ordinance No. 541 on 11/04/1992, effective 11/04/1992