BEFORE THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE STATE OF OREGON
                               FOR THE COUNTY OF YAMHILL
                    SITTING FOR THE TRANSACTION OF COUNTY BUSINESS

Approval of a Comprehensive Plan Amendment from Agriculture/Forestry )
Large Holding to Public; a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm                     )
use to PWS, Public Works/Safety Zone, Taking an Exception to Goal3,                   )        Ordinance 826
Tax Lot 4524-700, Applicant McMinnville Water & Light Commission                      _)
Docket no. PAZ-02-08/P-02-08, and Declaring an Emergency                              )

           THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF YAMHILL COUNTY, OREGON (the “Board”)
sat for the transaction of county business on May 14, 2008, Commissioners Mary P. Stern, Leslie
Lewis and Kathy George being present.

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the McMinnville Water & Light Commission.
requested approval ofa Comprehensive Plan amendment from Agriculture/Forestry Large Holding
to Public; a zone change from EF-80, Exclusive Farm use to PWS, Public Works/Safety zone. An
exception to Goal 3 is also required. The applicant also requested a partition in order to create a
separate parcel for the proposed City of McMinnville water storage reservoir, and

          IT APPEARING TO THE BOARD that the matter was heard at a duly noticed public
hearing before the Planning Commission April 3, 2008, which voted unanimously for approval, and
the matter was heard at a duly noticed public hearing April 30, 2008 before the Board, no opponents
appearing, and the Board voted unanimously for approval. NOW, THEREFORE,

             IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE BOARD, that the application is approved as
detailed in the Findings for Approval, attached as Exhibit “A” and by this reference incorporated
herein. This ordinance, being necessary for the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Yamhill
County, and an emergency having been declared to exist, is effective upon passage. A map is
appended as Exhibit “B”.

          DONE this 14" day of May, 2008, at McMinnville, Oregon.

ATTEST:                                YAMBILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS

JAN COLEMAN. ye
County Clerk                          Chair                     MARY P. STERN
By:LA      VE                         a Ml             y      Nps’
Deputy Anne Brith      \S              Ommissioner            “LESLIE LEWIS

APPROVED AS TO Poa ee
                      s                       nth
                                                oner ( thd
     ne @!                             Commissi
                                                  oo     (LATHY GEORGE

Rick Sanai, Assistant County Counsel

                                                       Ord,   826   -   Mac   Water        &   Light   Reservoir

                                                                                B-v-08 30)
                     EXHIBIT A

                     FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
                           (PAZ-02-08/P-02-08)

GENERAL FACTUAL FINDINGS

1.     Current Property size: Approximately 21.88 acres.

2.     Access; The property is located at the west end of Fox Ridge Road.

3.      On-site Land Use: The property is located west of the Masonic cemetery
and the existing City of McMinnville Water & Light Commission (MW&L) service
reservoirs. Most of the property is an open field with annual grass crops similar to
that found in the surrounding area. A portion of the property has a stand of
juvenile timber.

4.     Surrounding Zoning and Land Use: The property to the north is zoned
EFU-80 and contains a home site with out building and a Christmas tree farm.
The property to the west is zoned EFU-80 and contains juvenile forest. The area
to the east is zoned EFU-80 and is presently used as a Christmas tree farm.
Property to the south is zoned EFU-80 and contains forest land.

5.     Water: Water will be      provided   from    the water   storage    facility to be
constructed on the parcel.

6.        Sewage Disposal: {t is not anticipated that there will be any bathroom
facilities, but if required, the need would to be served by an on-site septic system,

7.     Fire Protection: McMinnville Rural Fire District.

8.     Soils: The Yamhill County Soil Survey shows that the property and the
proposed three acre parcel are composed of Yamhill Silt Loam soils (Type 38),
with an agricultural capability of Class 3. Class 3 soils are classified as high-
value farmland.

9.      Taxes; The parcel    is currently taxable    but is subject to special forest
deferral classification.

10.    Previous Actions; Tax Lot 4524-700 had an application for a partitioning
approved as Docket P-1377-84.

11.    The present farming and forestry uses would continue until displaced by
the proposed service reservoir(s). The construction of the water storage
reservoirs on the new parcel would be linked to the increasing population and
demographic trends.

12.    In 1974, the City of McMinnville was a community of approximately 7,000
persons at the center of a mid-county population of approximately 20,000.
Today, McMinnville has grown to 31,665 (7/01/2007) and the county population
                                                                          B.0.08    30}
is 93,085 (7/01/2007). The impact of population growth on demand for potable
water is continuing.

13.     MWé&L’s existing storage site has been a good neighbor since 1906, and
has litte or no impact on surrounding agricultural, resource, residential and
horticultural uses in the vicinity. Off site supervision is maintained on a twenty-
four hour basis.

14.     No additional or different impacts from those already existing at the
existing reservoir site are anticipated. The three-acre parcel proposed for
purchase by MW&L and for PWS status would be gradually developed for water
storage purposes as needed. The existing farm and forest uses will continue until
the reservoirs are needed. Surrounding properties would not experience
increased noise, and access would be through the existing access roadway
connecting to the end of Fox Ridge Road. Existing uses by surrounding
neighbors, which vary from Resource to Residential, and Farming to Horticulture
have alf been compatible with the low impact character of the water storage
activities.

15.     Existing public services are available to the site and are adequate.

16.      One purpose of the PWS zone is to provide for the legitimate demand and
public need for water storage facilities. The PWS zone exists partially to meet the
needs of areas encompassing both cities and rural residential populations. The
PWS zone thus serves a shared inter-Urban and Rural need for public utility
facilities.

17.     Due to the nature of the topography of the City of McMinnville, westerly
portions of the City of McMinnville which have been approved for current and
future development (elevation up to 415’+/-) cannot be served by existing water
storage facilities located at a lower elevation(elevation 340’+/-). In order to
maximize the safety and reliability of the City’s water system, the McMinnville
Water and Light Commission, based upon the recommendations of siaff and
consultants (Water System Master Plan — March 1996), has decided to acquire
and develop additional storage facilities (elevation 560'+/-) to serve new
development occurring at higher elevations. Planning staff indicates that no other
suitable PWS zoned county land is available at the needed elevations and in
proximity to the existing proposed residential development.

ZONING ORDINANCE CRITERIA

B.      Zone Change, Exception and Plan Amendment Findings

The zone change portion of the request must comply with the standards and
criteria in YCZO Section 1208.02. These provisions are:

(A)     The proposed change is consistent with the goals, policies,    and any other
        applicable provisions of the Comprehensive Plan.
(B)     There is an existing demonstrable need for the particular uses allowed by the
        requested zone, considering the importance of such uses to the citizenry or the
        economy of the area, the existing market demand which such uses will satisfy, and
        the availability and location of other lands so zoned and their suitability for the
        uses allowed by the zone.

(C)     The proposed change is appropriate considering the surrounding land uses, the
        density and pattern of development in the area, any changes which may have
        occurred in the vicinity to support the proposed amendment and the availability of
        utilities and services likely to be needed by the anticipated uses in the proposed
        district.

(D)   — Other lands in the county already designated for the proposed uses are either
        unavailable or not as well-suited for the anticipated uses due to location, size, or
        other factors.

(E)   — The amendment is consistent with the current Oregon Administrative Rules for
        exceptions, if applicable.

Regarding criterion (A) above, an exception to Statewide Planning Goal 4 is
needed so, Comprehensive Plan goals and policies related to agricultural lands
are applicable. The application addresses most Plan goals and policies related to
Public Land, Facilities and Services. Those findings are incorporated here by
reference. Other Plan goals and policies, which applicant feels may be pertinent
are:

        Oregon      Statewide Planning Goals and Guideline - Goal 9 - Economics,
        which states "To provide adequate opportunities throughout the State for a
        variety of economic activities vital to the health, welfare, and prosperity of
        Oregon's citizens ... Comprehensive plans and policies will contribute to a
        stable and healthy economy in all regions of the State."

This application promotes additional economic activity associated                 with   the
expansion of needed housing located within the City of McMinnville.

The Yamhill County Comprehensive Plan, Section Il, Goal 2, Policy a. states:

        Yamhill County     will continue to preserve those areas for farm        use which
        exhibit Class I through IV soils as identified in the Capability Classification
        System of the U.S, Soil Conservation Service.

In the Soil Survey of Yamhill Area, Oregon, the map shows that the soils present
on the tract are agricultural Class 3 farmland. The county decision-makers will
need to determine whether it is more important to save this three acre property
for farm use or allow it to be used to expand existing public water system storage
facilities.

        Yamhill County Revised Goals and Policies, G.IV.A.1. To develop a timely,
        orderly and efficient arrangement of public services and facilities to serve as
                 a framework for urban and rural development, including public lands and
                 buildings, parks and     recreation areas and facilities, schools, police and fire
                 protection, domestic water supply, sanitary and storm sewerage and other
                 drainage facilities, and power, gas and telephone services. (166)

          The proposed plan and zone change will have no adverse effect upon public
          services as existing facilities are near the site and are adequate. If anything, the
          applicant is providing a crucial public service by providing a place for expansion
          of water storage facilities to serve growth occurring within the City of McMinnville.

3.        Regarding criteria 1208.02 (B) and (D), County Planning staff conducted a
          survey of lots within a within a six mile radius, covering approximately thirty six
          sq. miles, from the subject property. The survey found eight existing “PWS”
          zoned properties within the surveyed area. The properties are listed below:

Tax Lot                           Owner                               Acreage

4513-01100                        MWEL (Service Reservoir)            10.85 Acres

4319-2000                         PGE Substation                      2.29 Acres

4319-1602                         City of Lafayette Well Site         .4 Acres

3533-1000                         Yamhill County Radio Tower | 1.0 Acres

5541-101,200                      Waste Management Landfill         | 246 Acres

5512-300                          Yamhill County Old Landfill       | 34.5 Acres

4424-900                          City of McMinnville Approach | 6.75 Acres
                                  Lights
                                                                      1.25 Acres
5402-1000                         Eola Village Water Ststem
The application involves 3 acres of land located at an approximate elevation of
560 feet. As noted above, there are no nearby properties zoned PWS anywhere
near that elevation. Based on this evidence, there are no other available “PWS”
zoned properties that would be suitable for the proposed water storage facilities.
Additionally, it should be considered that the intent of this application is to expand
future storage facilities as close to the existing storage facilities as possible,
which has been at the present location since 1906 (more than 100 years). The
impacts of the existing facility, although low, are already established. Opening
another facility away from this established location would likely cause greater
impacts than allowing expansion near this established location.

Regarding criterion 1208.02(C), the proposed use will not adversely affect the
neighboring properties in the area. Existing water storage facilities have co-
existed peacefully with the same neighboring uses for decades. The public
services, necessary for the future storage facilities, are similar to those needed
for the existing use and are readily available. The proposed zone change should
have no adverse effect upon public services, but would ultimately enhance the
fire flows and increase the available stored water capacities.

Exception requirements findings, criterion 1208.02 (E), are as follows:

A.     Goal Exception Provisions and Analysis

1.      Oregon Administrative Rule (OAR) 660-04 contains the requirements for
taking goal exceptions. The area is presently zoned EFU-80. As such it is subject
to protection under Goal 3. An exception to Goal 3 must be taken for the three
acre site to be re-zoned. Since the property is not built and committed to other
uses a “reasons” exception is required.

2,     OAR    660-04-020   contains   four   factors   that   must   be   addressed   when
taking an exception to a goal.   They are:

(a)    Reasons justify why the state policy embodied in the applicable goals
       should not apply.

(b)    Areas which do not         require    a   new    exception     cannot    reasonably
       accommodate the use.

(c)    The long-term environmental, economic, social and energy consequences
       resulting from the use at the proposed site with measures designed to
       reduce adverse impacts are nof significantly more adverse than would
       typically result from the same proposal being located in other areas
       requiring a Goal exception,
(2)       The proposed uses are compatible with other adjacent uses or will be so
          rendered through measures designed to reduce adverse impacts.

3.     Regarding factor (a), OAR 660-04-022 siates that the reasons justifying
why the state policy embodied in the goal should not apply include, but are not
 limited to, that there is a demonstrated   need for the water storage facility, and
either: 1) a resource upon which the facility is dependent can be reasonably
obtained only at the exception site and the facility requires a location near the
resource; or 2) the facility has special features or qualities that necessitate its
location on or near the proposed exception site. The request does not comply
with 1). The request complies with 2) - due to its location at sufficient elevation to
provide service to areas within the City of McMinnville located at higher
elevations than the existing service reservoirs.

4.        Factor (b) was discussed previously. There are eight other areas within a
six mile radius that would   not require a new exception.   However,   none of these
areas is of adequate size at the proper elevation nor situated in a fashion
necessary to accommodate the use and ail of the areas have other mutually
exclusive existing public uses established on them.

5.      Regarding factor (c), approval of the goal exception for the proposed uses
will not result in any significant long-term environmental, economic, social or
energy consequences to the area. Denial of the use would have a significant
social consequence. Expansion of needed additional housing within the City of
McMinnville on property presently zoned for residential development requires
additional water storage and fire flow capacity at higher elevations within the city.
The social consequences of failing to provide such storage would cause an
economic hardship to land otherwise available for needed and planned housing
and a public safety hazard.      Additionally, not utilizing a the available gravity
system will cause increased energy and reliability consequences.

6.       With regard to factor (d) the existing use of MW&L’s nearby storage
facility has been compatible with other agricultural and forestry uses occurring in
the area. There is no reason to believe that the expansion would not be just as
compatible with other uses occurring in the immediate area.

Limited Use Overlay Provisions

OAR 660-04-18(3)(a) states that when a reasons exception is taken, plan and
zone designations must limit uses to only those that are justified in the exception.
Section 904.03 of the YCZO contains provisions for limited use overlays.            It
states:

(a)   | When the Limited Use Overlay District is applied, the uses permitted in the
        underlying zone shall be limited to those specifically referenced in the
        ordinance adopting the Limited Use Overlay District.
(b)       The Limited Use Overlay District may be used to require conditional use
          approval for uses normally permitted outright.

(c)       Reasonable conditions may be imposed in the Limited Use Overlay
          District as are necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of the
          Comprehensive Plan and this ordinance.

(d)       Until the overlay has been removed or amended, the only permitted uses
          in an LU district shall be those specifically referenced in the adopting
          ordinance.

Since the PWS zone allows other uses which have not been evaluated to
determine whether they are appropriate to the area, it is appropriate to apply a
Limited Use Overlay to limit uses on the rezoned area to water storage and
related facilities,

COMPREHENSIVE PLAN                   GOALS AND POLICIES

SECTION IV.       Public Land, Facilities, and Services

Policy:           The County sees a need to integrate public facilities and services in an
                  effort to eliminate costs and conserve energy.

Related Findings:

1,        McMinnville Water and Light is a singular public power and water utility
          area serving the entire City of McMinnville and surrounding area.

          Water systems        are   a unique     public   service   usually   owned    by public
          bodies.

          McMinnville Water and Light serves a population of more than 30,000
          residents and businesses representing more than one third of the existing
          Yamhill County population.

          There    is a need     to plan   for,   locate   and   provide   public   water   storage
          facilities for public drinking water and fire protection purposes.

          No alternative area is available and suitable to expand the                       existing
          McMinnville Water & Light water service reservoir storage facility.

          The selected location for the new water storage site is close to the existing
          facility and will maximize the integration of existing and future water
          storage facilities.
          Location of the new facility in proximity to the existing site will enable
          McMinnville Water and Light staff to monitor and maintain both sites
          simultaneously thus reducing the time, vehicle mileage and energy costs
          associated with such activities.

Policy:          It is a concern of the county to regulate public and quasi-public
                 institutional uses within rural areas of the county.

Related Findings:

1.        The County has a legitimate interest in assuring the future availability of
          adequate water supplies and fire protection and related activities within
          the mid-county area.

          The location of the proposed site is a major advantage to a coordinated
          mid-county water storage facility available for public service.

          Health, water quality and fire and life safety concerns are legitimate county
          interests in connection with the future development of the City of
          McMinnville and surrounding areas.

Goal Statement:

                To develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of public
                services and facilities to serve as a framework for urban and rural
                development,     including     public     lands     and      buildings,     parks    and
                recreation   areas   and   facilities,   schools,   police     and   fire   protection,
                domestic water supply, sanitary and storm sewerage and                              other
                drainage facilities, and power, gas and telephone services. (166)

Related Findings:

1.        Water storage facilities are a legitimate type of PWS use, established as a
          permitted use in a county PWS zone. By their nature, water storage
          facilities require extremely long term planning horizons to assure
          continuity of service.
          McMinnville Water and Light started providing water service in 1889, and
          has served for generations and thousands of local families.
          Additional area, located nearby to the existing facilities is needed to serve
          the long term expansion needs of the City of McMinnville.
          The last increase to MW&L water storage facilities occurred in 1995.
          Additional water storage facilities will be developed as necessary, and
          subject to conditions of approval appropriate to those future requests.
      Policy:            Yamhill County will coordinate with the cities and appropriate local,
                         state, and federal agencies in providing for the health and service
                         needs of the public, particularly the needs of the disadvantaged,
                         including the young, the elderly and the handicapped.

      Related Findings:

      1.        The entire existing Water and Light system is presently a model of water
                service facilities. The entire complex operates on a gravity basis, with no
                electrical power required.

      2.        Water and Light is responsible for provided essential public services
                consisting of electrical power, potable water and fire protection water flows
                to protect the McMinnville area population including the most vulnerable
                young, elderly and handicapped portions of the population.

      3.        Only the City of McMinnville has the facilities or funding                        to serve the
                power, water and fire flow needs of the public.

      4,        Prompt and continuous provision of water and fire flow services has long
                been a primary health need of local citizens and requirement of local
                governments.

lV.   TRANSPORTATION PLANNING RULE

1.     The provisions of the Transportation Planning Rule, implementing Goal 12, must
be addressed. OAR 660-12-060 contains the provisions that must be met:

      (1)       Amendments to functional plans, acknowledged comprehensive plans, and
                land use regulations which significantly affect a transportation facility shall
                assure     that    allowed   land   uses   are   consistent   with   the   identified    function,
                capacity, and level of service of the facility. This shall be accomplished by
                either:
                 (a)    Limiting allowed land uses to be consistent with the planned function,
                        capacity and level of service of the transportation facility;
                (b)     Amending     the TSP      [Transportation    System Plan] to provide
                        transportation facilities adequate to support the proposed land uses
                        consistent with the requirements of this division; or,
                (ce)    Altering land use designations, densities, or design requirements to
                        reduce demand for automobile travel and meet travel needs through
                         other modes.

      (2)       A   plan      or     land    use    regulation     amendment         significantly      affects   a
                transportation facility if it:
        (a)        Changes the functional classification of an existing or planned
                   transportation facility;
        (b)        Changes standards implementing a functional classification system;
        ©)         Allows types or levels of land uses which would result in levels of
                   travel or access which         are inconsistent with the functional
                   classification of a transportation facility; or
        (@)        Would reduce the level of service of the facility below the minimum
                   acceptable level identified in the TSP.

Regarding (1) and (2), the proposed use is for expansion of existing water
storage facilities at a nearby site utilizing the same access roadway so the traffic
impacis are already existing. There are no known transportation issues with the
existing use. Neither the Oregon Department of Transportation nor the Yamhill
County Public Works Department has raised concerns that existing and
proposed water storage facilities would exceed the capacity of Fox Ridge Road.

PARTITION CRITERIA AND FINDINGS

   In the PWS         District, the following standards and limitations shall apply:

   A.   Dwelling Density.

        Not more than one (1) dwelling shall be permitted on any parcel.

   8.   Parcel Size and Dimension.

              1.   Minimum   Parcel Size.

                   The minimum parcel size shall be 20,000 square feet, plus 20,000 square feet
                   for any dwelling.

                   Depth-to-Width Ratio.

                   The maximum    depth-to-width ratio for any newly-created         parcel shall be 3:1.

   C,   Setbacks,

        The minimum setback            for all yards    shall   be   twenty   (20)    feet   for all uses,
        except as follows:

              1.   The minimum    setback shall be five (5) feet for all yards for signs.

              2.   Fences, walls and hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the
                   edge of any yard, subject to the clear-vision requirements of subsection
                   802.07(F). [Amended 7/9/98, Ord. 648]
   D.   Parcel Coverage.

        The maximum parcel coverage shall be appropriate to the use, subject to
        Section 1101 for site design review.

   E.   Access.

        Before a dwelling may be established on any parcel as provided in this
        section, the parcel shall have a legal, safe and passable means of access by
        abutting at least twenty (20) feet either directly upon a public road, or by a
        private easement which is at least thirty (30) feet in width for its entire length
        and which also abuts upon a public road for at least thirty (30) feet. Nothing
        in this section shall be construed to vary or waive the requirements for
        creation of new access contained in any Land Division Ordinance legally
        adopted by Yamhill County.

   F,   Clear-Vision Areas.

        A clear-vision area shall be maintained on the corner of any parcel at the
        intersection of any two of the following: county roads; public roads; private
        roads serving four or more parcels; and railroads. A clear-vision area shail
        contain no sight-obscuring structures or plantings exceeding thirty (30)
        inches in height within a triangle formed by the lot corner nearest the
        intersection, and the two points twenty (20) feet from this corner is measured
        along the parcel lines adjacent to the intersection rights-of way. Trees
        exceeding this height may be located such that their branches extend into
        this triangle, provided they are maintained to allow at least twelve (12) feet
        of visual clearance within the triangle below the lowest hanging branches,

   G.   Height.

            1,    The maximum   building height for any dwelling shall be thirty-five (35) feet;

            2,    The maximum   building   height for all other structures shall be sixty (60) feet;
                  and

            3.    Appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
                  intended for human occupancy such as spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas,
                  water tanks, ventilators, chimneys and wind generators are not subject to the
                  height limitations of this ordinance.

   H,   Off-street Parking.

        Off-street parking and loading requirements for any use in the PWS               District
        shail be as provided in Section 1007.

Related Findings:

 1.    Applicant proposes to divide the entire three acre area zoned for PWS into
a single parcel; separate from the remaining 18.88 acres of the original parcel.
This meets the minimum PWS parcel size of 20,000 square feet. The remaining
18.88 acres will remain zoned EFU-80 as at present.
2.      No residence will be constructed, and depth to width requirements for the
configuration of the new parcel is satisfied.

3.     Future water storage facilities will be constructed in conformance with all
setback requirements. Access is via Fox Ridge Road and will not require any
new roadway improvements.

4,      Clear vision and height standards will be applicable. Off street parking
 requirements will and can conform to YCZO Section 1007.

5.     There is no existing septic system.

6.     The site is within two miles of the city limits of McMinnville.

7.     The approximate location of anticipated storage facilities is shown on the
submitted draft preliminary partition plat map.

8.     The property is located within the McMinnville Rural Fire District.

9.     The property is not located in a flood plain, or area of erosion, is not
located on an area of steep slopes, does not contain fish or wildlife habitat areas,
and has soil conditions sufficient for construction of the proposed water storage
facilities.

                                                                         B.o.08 20!
                    EXHIBIT MAP FOR ORDINANCE NO. 826
                   PLAN AMENDMENT AND ZONE CHANGE
       ADOPTED BY THE YAMHILL COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                 May 14, 2008
              FOR A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT FROM
          AGRICULTURE/FORESTRY LARGE HOLDING TO PUBLIC AND
                  TO CHANGE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP FROM
                         EF-80 EXCLUSIVE FARM USE
                                      TO
                            PWS Public Works/Safety

                                                         West        579,21"                   =
                                                 8an   oe 579.24
                                                              79,        West
                                                                           fest —pel
                                                                    “y
                                                          Easement           #1                60)
                  SS      agigt                                                            |
                  re)   3.00 Acres                                                         |
                  a                                                                    £3
                                                                                       é             $
             BE                                           ' Easement #3                              a
             3                                                                    Vi
             2                                                                         !
             a                                                                    oR
                                                                                       &             .
                                            VIERRA                                     al            ie
                                             TL 700                                    1s
                                         instr.g199717718                              l |           a
             +
             rs
             ey

             wm
                                                                                       |
                                                                                       leo
                                                                         x             |
                                                                         Big
                                                                         Mes
                                                                         oS
                                                                             el
                                       778.40"                           a=
                                     SA9°S8'20°W                         a

CHANGE APPLIES TO A THREE ACRE PORTION OF TAX LOT 4524-700 AS IDENTIFIED ABOVE AS “B-2"

APPROXIMATE SCALE - 1 INCH = 200 FEET

                                                                                                          B.0.0%
                                                                                                               Bo |